Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) drew backlash online over remarks he made over the weekend about the murder of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
Sanders made the remarks during a Sunday NBC News interview with Kristen Welker on “Meet The Press” when asked about remarks from Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), who responded to the assassination by saying “you can only push people so far and then they start to take matters into their own hands.”
“Is this the right time in the wake of this horrific murder to be talking about health care policy?” Welker asked.
“Elizabeth Warren obviously understands killing and murder and shooting somebody in the back is totally unacceptable,” he said. “But what I think has happened in the last few months is that what you have seen rising up is people’s anger at a health insurance industry which denies people the health care that they desperately need while they make billions and billions of dollars in profit.”
“So, killing anybody, shooting somebody in the back who was the father of two, is outrageous. And it’s unacceptable. Nobody, nobody should applaud it,” he continued. “I know Senator Warren did not. But I think what we need to ask ourselves when we talk about health care, is why we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care to all people, why we have a life expectancy which is significantly lower than in other countries, why working-class people die five to 10 years shorter than the people on top?”
CHECK OUT THE DAILY WIRE HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE
He said that he felt “very strongly about this” and that it was “long overdue for us to guarantee health care to every man, woman and child, especially at a time when we’re spending twice as much per capita on health care as the people of every other nation.”
“The goal of health care is not to make drug companies and insurance companies phenomenally rich, it is to guarantee quality care to all of our people,” he added.
WATCH:
CRAZY BERNIE: “Shooting somebody in the back is totally unacceptable, but…..” 🥴 pic.twitter.com/HlAUhqIVw6
— RNC Research (@RNCResearch) December 15, 2024
Republican strategist Matt Whitlock fired back on X: “The shooter had severe mental health issues — he was practically foaming at the mouth screaming at the courthouse.”
“That won’t stop Democrats from trying to use him to make a point,” he added.
Pradheep J. Shanker, M.D., responded to the clip by highlighting the far-left extremist who shot up a congressional baseball practice in 2017.
“Remember that it was Bernie’s rhetoric that helped motivate the Congressional baseball shooter,” he wrote. “He still has learned nothing.”
Republican strategist Steve Guest said that Sanders’ remarks were part of a pattern of top Democrats “justifying murder.”
ROLL THE TAPE: Leaders of the Democrat Party are justifying murder.
AOC: “This is not to say that an act of violence is justified, but…”
Elizabeth Warren: “You can only push people so far & then they start to take matters into their own hands.”
Bernie Sanders: “Shooting… pic.twitter.com/xy1cQnuk7n
— Steve Guest (@SteveGuest) December 15, 2024
Related: AOC On Health Insurance CEO’s Assassination: Denying Claims Is ‘An Act Of Violence’