Alex Pretti was caught on video attacking the vehicle of federal immigration officers in Minneapolis just days before he was shot and killed in an altercation with Border Patrol.
Footage of the January 13 incident shows Pretti spitting at officers and kicking out the taillight of one of their vehicles. Pretti then raises his middle finger to the vehicle before one agent gets out of the vehicle and quickly wrestles him to the ground.
After a brief scuffle, Pretti manages to slip out of his coat and retreat behind a crowd of protesters. Immigration agents do not follow him. What appears to be a gun can be seen sticking out of Pretti’s waistband.
The footage was originally captured and published by The News Movement.
The Minnesota Star Tribune confirmed with Alex Pretti’s family that the man in this video is indeed Alex Pretti.
Filmed by @thenewsmovement on January 13, two weeks before Pretti was shot by ICE: pic.twitter.com/1yLKLApXvB
— Mary Margaret Olohan (@MaryMargOlohan) January 28, 2026
The attorney for Pretti’s family has since confirmed that Pretti is the man in the video.
“A week before Alex was gunned down in the street — despite posing no threat to anyone — he was violently assaulted by a group of ICE agents,” attorney Steve Schleicher, who represents Pretti’s family, told the Minnesota Star Tribune after reviewing the footage.
The January 13 altercation took place in Minneapolis’ Powderhorn neighborhood, within half a mile of the spot that immigration agents had previously shot and killed Renee Good on January 7. Good had been using her vehicle to impede immigration officers, and as several officers approached her vehicle and requested she exit, she drove her car forward, hitting one of the officers before he shot her.
Pretti was shot and killed during an altercation with Border Patrol agents in Minneapolis on January 24, 11 days after his earlier confrontation with immigration agents. Pretti’s first violent encounter with immigration agents left him with a broken rib, according to CNN.
The Department of Homeland Security has said that it has no record of the January 13 interaction between Pretti and immigration officers.
Pretti’s death sparked outrage and fueled more civil unrest in Minnesota as state and local officials have continued to encourage anti-immigration enforcement activists to resist federal law enforcement efforts. In the days since, the Trump administration has swapped out some of the law enforcement personnel in Minnesota, moving out Border Patrol Commander Gregory Bovino and moving in White House border czar Tom Homan.
Homan will serve as the liaison between federal immigration officials and Minnesota state and local officials. The border czar has met with some top officials already, including Minnesota Governor Tim Walz and Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey.
Trump has called Pretti’s death a “very unfortunate incident.” Two of the agents involved in Pretti’s death have been placed on administrative leave while the incident is investigated, according to Customs and Border Protection.