A comedian named Tim Dillon dressed up as the murdered UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson and pretended to read nasty text messages from hell.
The 39-year-old comedian did the bit as part of the Netflix special “Torching 2024: A Roast of the Year,” which was released on Friday.
Dillon put on a navy blue sweater, a light blue collared shirt, and tan khakis to match an outfit Thompson was wearing in the photo that’s been making the rounds online. The comedian also had fake blood splatter and chains around his neck when he stepped onto the stage at The Bellwether in Los Angeles, per the New York Post.
Fans laughed as Dillon started his set in front of a large sign that said, “UnitedHellcare CEO.”
“I’m going to hell for this, you might as well laugh,” Dillon began.
The comedian pretended to be Thompson and told the crowd he had been reading tweets from people happy he was dead.
“Your reaction to my murder makes me sick … and not the type of sick I would immediately deny for not having the proper paperwork,” the comedian said, referencing denied healthcare claims.
“The truth is, without people like me, f***ing over people like you, to help people like me, this country would fall apart and that’s on you,” Dillon added.
The comedian next focused on the topic of Luigi Mangione, the man who was charged with Thompson’s murder.
“Look at yourselves dancing in the streets because that guy Tortellini Mozzarella took me by surprise like an unexpected medical bill and shot me in the back,” Dillon joked. “Apparently he had his own back problems. I’m sorry Luigi but nobody feels bad for a thin guy with back problems. Claim denied!”
Dillon ended his set by saying. “Deny, defend, decompose,” referencing the fact that the bullet casings found at the crime scene allegedly said, “Deny Defend Depose.”
Cast members on “SNL” were criticized for making jokes about Thompson’s death just days after it happened. Prominent figures including former Washington Post reporter Taylor Lorenz have also come under fire for making positive comments about the assassination.
“I felt, along with so many other Americans, joy…” Lorenz told Piers Morgan of the murder.
She wrote on X, “People have very justified hatred toward insurance company CEOs because these executives are responsible for an unfathomable amount of death and suffering. As someone against death and suffering, I think it’s good to call out this broken system and the ppl in power who enable it.”
50% OFF ALL DAILY WIRE ANNUAL MEMBERSHIPS FOR A LIMITED TIME!