DHS says an ICE agent shot an illegal immigrant in the leg after being attacked on Wednesday, new information on the condition of the ICE agent who fatally shot an agitator last week, and the Clintons duck an Epstein investigation subpoena. Get the facts first with Morning Wire.
It’s Thursday, January 15, 2026, and this is the news you need to know to start your day. Today’s edition of the Morning Wire podcast can be heard below:
Mayhem In Minneapolis As Agitators Target ICE
An ICE agent shot “an illegal alien from Venezuela” in the leg on Wednesday night after being “ambushed by three individuals,” according to an X post by DHS. The agent was attacked with a snow shovel and a broom handle. The ICE officer and the suspect who was shot were hospitalized, and the other two attackers are in custody, DHS said. Tensions on the streets remain high in Minneapolis, but ICE is still moving forward with its mission. Daily Wire immigration reporter Jenny Taer joined Morning Wire on the ground in Minneapolis, describing the chaotic environment in which federal immigration officers are attempting to do their jobs. “There were absolutely moments where I felt like things were just going to go haywire,” Taer said. Agitators constantly impede and threaten officers. Arrests of agitators have become a daily occurrence in Minneapolis, despite efforts by federal agents to de-escalate and allow agitators to step away. Taer said that the situation in Minneapolis is “very intense,” and the attempt to hamper ICE is a “very organized, well-communicated operation.”
ICE Officer Sustains Internal Bleeding After Renee Good Shooting
New information has come to light on the condition of the ICE agent who fatally shot Renee Good. According to the Department of Homeland Security, Good’s vehicle struck the ICE agent hard enough to cause internal bleeding. The agent and his family have since gone into hiding because of the threats they face. Regarding the Good investigation, at least half a dozen prosecutors have resigned from the Minneapolis U.S. Attorney’s office over the handling of the Good shooting death investigation, reportedly stemming from objections to Justice Department priorities and the refusal to open a civil rights inquiry.
Clintons Duck Congress’s Epstein Questions
The Clintons are refusing to comply with a subpoena in the House Oversight Committee’s Jeffrey Epstein investigation. The Clintons’ attorneys issued a lengthy statement on Tuesday saying the couple would not appear before Congress to answer questions. The letter argued that the former president and first lady had “already provided the limited information they possess about Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell to the Committee,” and that the committee’s subpoenas “are invalid and legally unenforceable.” Oversight Committee chairman Rep. James Comer (R-KY) said in return, the committee would vote next week to “hold former President Clinton in contempt of Congress.”