How the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson unfolded
NEW YORK CITY - Brian Thompson, the former CEO of UnitedHealthcare, was shot and killed back on the morning of Wednesday, Dec. 4, 2024, outside a Midtown Manhattan hotel in what the NYPD immediately said appeared to be a "brazen, targeted attack."
The 50-year-old Thompson was shot shortly before his UnitedHealthcare annual investors meeting. According to the Fortune 500 company’s website, Thompson had served as CEO since April 2021.
FOX 5 NY was one of the first news crews on scene, capturing video showing officers performing chest compressions on Thompson.
The backstory:
The shooting happened around 6:45 a.m. outside New York Hilton Midtown, between W. 53th and W. 54th streets.
In the chilling video, Thompson is seen walking down a New York City sidewalk when a masked man wearing a black hoodie sweatshirt and a backpack walks up behind him and raises a handgun with glove-covered hands.
The culprit fires off several shots. At one point, the gun appeared to jam. The assailant then appears to smack the gun on the side while walking toward the victim, who is attempting to get away.
As he gets closer to Thompson, the man appears to continue to struggle with the pistol, possibly firing off one more round at the victim who appears to be struggling to move.
Thompson was rushed to Mt. Sinai Hospital after being shot. Despite efforts to save him, he was pronounced dead at 7:12 a.m. The coroner confirmed that the cause of death was gunshot wounds.
A few hours later, police released images of the suspected gunman, who appeared to be a white male who was carrying a distinctive gray backpack.
What they're saying:
"It appears the suspect was lying in wait for several minutes and as the victim was walking to the conference hotel, the suspect approached from behind and fired several rounds, striking the victim at least once in the back and at least once in the right calf," NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch said during a news conference on the morning of the shooting.