CNN anchor Erin Burnett gave Renee Good’s former father-in-law an opportunity to question or even condemn the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent who shot his daughter after she struck him with her vehicle.
Timmy Macklin, father of Good’s late ex-husband and grandfather to her six-year-old son, joined the host of “Erin Burnett Out Front” to discuss the situation — and despite prompts from Burnett, he made it clear that he did not hold any ill will toward the agent who fired the shot.
WATCH:
Last night on CNN, Rebecca Good’s father appeared for his first interview to discuss Renee’s death.
The host repeatedly probed for answers that would condemn President Trump, but his answer even took the host back.
“I don’t blame ICE, I don’t blame Rebecca, I don’t blame Renee.… pic.twitter.com/yuq30CY3Wo
— Andrew Kolvet (@AndrewKolvet) January 14, 2026
Burnett began by noting that the Justice Department was not planning to investigate the actions taken by the ICE agent at the scene, but that some comments had been made about investigating the actions taken by Renee — and by her partner, Rebecca Good — that led up to the fatal confrontation.
“How do you feel about all that?” Burnett asked.
“Well, you know, I’m not blaming anybody. I mean, it’s a hard situation all the way around,” Macklin said. “It’s hard for everybody involved. I mean, the ICE agent — you know, at first I didn‘t see the footage where … he was actually being rammed. I mean, I‘ve seen the bump of the car hitting his legs. And so in a flash like that, it‘s hard to say how you would react.”
“From my understanding, he had been through that before, maybe dragged or something,” Macklin continued, referring to a previous incident in which the ICE agent had been dragged down the road. Like I said, it’s just a hard situation for everybody.”
Macklin said that he didn’t have “any enemies” and had no issue with Renee or Rebecca, but also said that he had none with the ICE agents involved either. “That’s what the bible tells us, to love our neighbors as we love ourselves.”
He went on to say that some “bad choices” had been made, adding, “The Word says ‘the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience.'”
“I don’t blame ICE, I don’t blame Rebecca, I don’t blame Renee. I just, you know, I just wish that, you know, if — if we’re walking the spirit of God, I don’t think she would have been there. That’s the way I look at it,” he said.