Renee Good had apparent gunshot wounds to her chest, forearm, and possibly head, according to documents released by the Minneapolis Fire Department on Thursday.
The fire department sent documents to media outlets, which stated that first responders “found two apparent gunshot wounds to the patient’s right chest [and] one apparent gunshot wound to the patient’s left forearm,” ABC News reported. The documents also stated that it’s possible she was struck on the left side of her head.
Good, 37, was shot and killed by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent in Minneapolis last week after she drove her SUV toward the agent during a confrontation with federal law enforcement. Video shows Good’s Honda Pilot striking ICE agent, Jonathan Ross, and three shots are heard before Good’s vehicle careens down the street and crashes into a parked car.
Minneapolis officials said that after the shooting, first responders removed Good from her vehicle and moved her down the street “for a more workable scene, better access for ambulances, and separation from an escalating scene involving law enforcement and bystanders.” When first responders arrived, Good was “unresponsive, not breathing, with inconsistent, irregular, thready pulse activity,” according to the fire department’s report. She was transported to the hospital, where she was later pronounced dead.
Good, who was actively involved in monitoring ICE’s actions in the city, was in the area of the ICE operation on January 7 as anti-ICE demonstrators followed the federal agents, with some people filming them. Good parked her car in the middle of the road as agents moved down the street in a convoy of vehicles. When one agent attempted to open her car door, Good put the car in reverse and then drove forward while another agent was standing in front of the vehicle. That agent then shot and killed Good.
The shooting death sparked more than a week of protests in Minneapolis, which remain ongoing, as the city’s leaders condemn ICE and accuse President Donald Trump of “creating chaos” with his deployment of federal immigration agents. The Trump administration, meanwhile, has backed agent Ross and said that Good engaged in an act of “domestic terrorism.”
Despite his administration labeling Good a domestic terrorist, Trump told CBS News earlier this week that “under normal circumstances,” Good was most likely a “very solid, wonderful person.” He added that her actions during the confrontation with ICE were “pretty tough.”
“When you look at that tape, it can be viewed two ways I guess, but when you look at the way that car pulled away — there are a couple versions of that tape that are very, very bad,” Trump said.
In the interview with CBS News, the president defended ICE’s actions and said that federal immigration agents are “working very hard” to detain illegal immigrants, but “their job is being made very, very difficult.”