No one thinks about this timeline anymore, but it took more than two months after George Floyd died in Minneapolis for a foreign media organization — The Daily Mail — to publish the body camera footage of his arrest and subsequent overdose. Minnesota Democrats had refused to release the video, without explaining why. But it was obvious, in retrospect, why they didn’t release it: The leaked body camera footage was fatal to the official narrative concerning Floyd’s death. It demonstrated that Floyd, because he was in the process of overdosing on a lethal level of fentanyl, was struggling to breathe long before he was on the ground. But by the time the footage was released to the public, in August, it was far too late. Too many people had already been convinced that Floyd had somehow been murdered by a police officer who didn’t cause any physical injury whatsoever to Floyd’s neck or upper body, who was following established procedure, and who knew he was being recorded by an increasingly unhinged mob.
More than five years after the show trial of Derek Chauvin — in which prosecutors deliberately lied about the level of fentanyl in Floyd’s system — the United States is a very different place. BLM and COVID hysteria have completely discredited the corporate press, which no one takes seriously anymore. Daniel Penny managed to walk in New York, even though one of the jurors was wearing a face mask throughout the trial. Donald Trump decisively won the popular vote — an achievement that was unthinkable, according to most political observers. And Trump won a majority of the popular vote by promising, as explicitly as possible, that he would close the border and begin deporting illegal aliens in massive numbers. No matter how unpleasant it may be, Trump explained, it was necessary work. Laws must be enforced. In other words, it’s now much, much more difficult for Democrats to pull off a successful hoax than it used to be. Most Americans support the administration’s agenda. And no one believes the usual liars anymore. And on top of that, we have X instead of Twitter, so you won’t be banished from social media if you tell the truth.
Nevertheless, after a gay open-borders agitator named Renee Good was shot and killed by an ICE agent on Wednesday, the Left attempted to run the same George Floyd playbook all over again. Even though Good was a white woman — and therefore very, very low on the Left’s racial victim hierarchy — they gave it the old college try. Specifically, they tried to hide relevant video footage in order to falsely accuse law enforcement of committing murder. That’s why we haven’t been allowed to see any of the footage that was recorded by Good’s lesbian friend, even though she was clearly recording the entire incident, up close and personal, with her cellphone. You’d think, if this woman thought that she and her lesbian associate had done nothing wrong, that she’d be plastering this footage on every social media platform, and doing constant appearances on CNN and MSNBC. But she’s not doing that.
Instead, Good’s associate has kept the footage hidden. Meanwhile, in the hours and days after the shooting, most corporate media outlets didn’t show any of the cell phone recordings of the shooting that were taken by various people in the neighborhood. The footage was widely available on X, but major news outlets didn’t show it. Instead, the media described the shooting in very general terms, without explaining exactly what happened. Democrats clearly expected that the usual information vacuum would form, and in anticipation, they took full advantage of it. One after another, they flagrantly lied about Good’s actions, which directly led to her death.
Here’s Adam Schiff and the sheriff of Philadelphia, to give just two examples:
“This 37 year old woman drops her kid off at school. Not involved in protest activity or anything. Seems to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.”
– Adam Schiff, 48 hours ago https://t.co/esQgBntCSf pic.twitter.com/5NeRqcGF6Z
— Western Lensman (@WesternLensman) January 10, 2026
Credit: @WesternLensman/X.com
WOW. Rochelle Bilal, head of the Philadelphia Sheriff’s Office, says that ICE is a “fake” law enforcement agency and threatens to ARREST federal agents for carrying out immigration operations.
“You don’t want this smoke. Cause we will bring it to you.”pic.twitter.com/rcOM6aO2Md
— Libs of TikTok (@libsoftiktok) January 9, 2026
Credit: @LibsofTikTok/X.com
By the time Schiff and the Philadelphia sheriff were lying like this, there were already a handful of videos — which we talked about last week — showing that Good had parked her car perpendicular in the middle of the road, in order to obstruct ICE. And there was also footage from a bystander proving that she drove into an ICE officer, after ICE ordered her out of the car. So the lying was already, at the time, completely absurd.
But the lying was also somewhat effective. Many people who saw the original videos — including some commentators who describe themselves as conservatives — argued that the shooting wasn’t a necessary and justifiable use of force. After all, they said, Renee Good was just a harmless woman on her way to daycare. How much of a threat could she really be? This was an argument that never made any sense because, even if this woman really was going to a daycare, that obviously doesn’t give her a right to commit a felony by blocking a road and obstructing a law enforcement operation. There’s no “going to a daycare” exception to federal law. Timothy McVeigh was “on his way to a daycare” when he committed the Oklahoma City Bombings — in the sense that he was on his way to blow one up. That doesn’t mean he was immune from criminal prosecution.
Then more videos came out, and even this flimsy daycare defense — such as it was — collapsed. Unlike the George Floyd scam, these new videos didn’t take months to surface. Again, this is a different country than it was in 2020. The FBI can’t tell every single social media platform to ban anyone who tells the truth. And on top of that, millions of people have been conditioned, based on previous hoaxes, to demand more footage. Meanwhile, on the Left, there’s still the sense that white people can’t possibly be martyrs. They’re all “colonizers,” regardless of their politics.
That additional footage that buried the hoax came from the ICE officer’s cell phone camera, as well as cell phones from additional homeowners in the area. The footage shows that both Good and her lesbian friend were openly harassing ICE officers for more than 3 minutes before the shooting. They were clearly enjoying themselves, and fully aware of what they were doing. Good was dancing in her car as she honked her horn while blocking the road. And Good’s friend, after harassing the officers, screamed at Good to “drive, baby drive” when ICE agents attempted to arrest her for obstruction. In other words, she encouraged her friend to commit a violent crime, on camera.
Watch:
🚨 BREAKING: Was just sent a video showing the moments before the shooting.
In it, you can clearly see Renee Good’s vehicle blocking ICE agents for over 3 minutes as she’s dancing to her own car horn.
Kinda ruins some narratives, doesn’t it? pic.twitter.com/aXtiTjAtF9
— Dustin Grage (@GrageDustin) January 10, 2026
Credit: @GrageDustin/X.com
This is the video Jacob Frey doesn’t want you to see.
All his BS is totally undermined. pic.twitter.com/3DvsfnEMsz
— Steve Guest (@SteveGuest) January 11, 2026
Credit: @SteveGuest/X.com
First of all, when you block a road — as Renee did — you are committing multiple serious felonies that can, and should, put you in prison for decades. We’re not just talking about obstructing an investigation, or breaking traffic laws. We’re also talking about false imprisonment — as in, you’re falsely imprisoning everyone who’s trying to use the road. You’re effectively kidnapping them because you’re restricting and redirecting their movement, against their will. This isn’t some novel legal theory I’m talking about. Just a couple of years ago, San Francisco’s DA — yes, the DA of one of the most Left-wing cities on the planet — brought false imprisonment charges against dozens of pro-Gaza rioters, after they blocked the Golden Gate Bridge for several hours. Ambulances couldn’t get through. Neither could the police or anyone else.
If San Francisco can bring the appropriate charges in a situation like that, then the Trump administration can bring down the hammer on these people as well. Smash every window of every car that’s blocking a road for any reason — but especially if they’re impeding ICE investigations. Haul everyone in the car to federal prison.
The good news is that, as of today, there are signs that ICE is taking these kinds of blockades more seriously.
On Sunday, ICE did indeed start breaking windows and dragging rioters out of their cars when they attempted to shut down roads and follow ICE around the city. They also started knocking over low-testosterone men who decided to stand in front of ICE vehicles, as you can see here.
These videos are always so funny man, the guy gets in front of the car to act tough and then the ICE agent immediately slams him to the ground and the woman filming starts panicking: “What the fuck I can’t believe that happened!”pic.twitter.com/Z9CFh3vqXY
— captive dreamer (@captive_dreamer) January 11, 2026
Credit: @captive_dreamer/X.com
The guy collapses like a twig. And then the vehicle can proceed, as the Leftist women scream in the background. And that’s important because, for many months now, Leftists have viewed these tactics as an effective way to “de-arrest” illegal aliens. They’ve been taught, by well-organized and well-funded groups, that blockading and hounding ICE is a lawful and effective tactic. They’ve been told that ICE doesn’t have jurisdiction over American citizens, which is false. They’ve been told that ICE can’t arrest American citizens for interfering with their investigations, which is also false. And now ICE is responding with lawful force, which they should’ve been doing all along. More on that in a second.
But first, we need to go back to the footage you just saw, from the Renee Good shooting. You hear the ICE officer at the end respond by saying “woah” as the lesbian agitator floors it, after looking directly at him, while he’s standing in front of the car. The agent clearly wasn’t expecting her to drive directly into him. He wasn’t looking for an excuse to shoot her. He was responding to the fact that he was getting hit by a car, which you can clearly see in this footage:
View this post on Instagram
Credit: @kstptv/Instagram.com
The reason there’s a bullet hole in Renee Good’s front windshield is that, as this footage clearly shows, the agent was directly in front of the car when she accelerated. She hit him with her car, after spending three minutes blocking the road.
To be clear, the relevant question is not, “With the benefit of hindsight, would the officer definitely have been killed if he hadn’t opened fire?” And the relevant question is not, “What exactly was the lesbian agitator intending to do when she drove off?” None of that matters.
What matters is whether the officer truly believed that his life was in danger, and whether his belief was objectively reasonable under the circumstances. That’s it. As for intent, there is effectively no difference — morally or legally — between hitting an officer with your car on purpose while you try to evade arrest and hitting an officer by accident while you try to evade arrest. In both cases, you’re attempting to escape, and committing a violent act against a law enforcement officer as a direct result of that decision. Whether you meant to commit the act, or you meant only to get away and didn’t care if you hit him or not, is basically irrelevant.
As for the officer’s state of mind, it’s relevant that he reacted with shock when Renee Good started driving, as he was positioned in front of the car. It’s also why it’s relevant that this same ICE agent — the same one who shot Renee Good — had been dragged, and seriously injured, by a vehicle during an arrest just a few months ago. He was well aware of the risks that are involved when a car is driving towards him. Additionally, at that moment, as the car hit him, he was also worried about the safety of the agent who was holding onto the driver’s side door. And the officer’s concerns were objectively reasonable, because cars are capable of doing an enormous amount of damage to the human body when you’re standing in front of them and they’re coming towards you. That’s common sense — but just in case it isn’t, there are plenty of police fatalities that prove the point. That doesn’t necessarily mean that Renee Good intended to kill the officer. But it does mean that, through her actions, she gave him a reasonable impression that his life was in danger. And therefore, she had it coming — legally speaking.
By the way, as we’ve discussed before on this show, it used to be the law in this country (in many states) that police could shoot felons who tried to flee. It didn’t matter if the felon was actively posing a threat to anyone’s life. The mere fact that a felon was refusing lawful orders to stop, by itself, justified the use of lethal force. It wasn’t until the mid-1980s when the Supreme Court, in a 6-3 decision, changed the law on that. But before that point, in many states, and in the common law, a fleeing felon could be stopped by the police with lethal force. If you, say, robbed a home, and then ran away when the police told you to stop in the name of the law, then the police could shoot you in the back, and they wouldn’t face any consequences. If anything, the police officer would get a promotion. That’s one of the reasons why, when you watch movies that are 30 or 40 years old, or older, you often see police firing shots at criminals as they run away. It looks funny to us now, and we assume that was just a Hollywood thing, but it wasn’t. Until relatively recently, that’s exactly how police would and could respond if you ran away.
Maybe no one wants to say it out loud, but it was obviously a better system than the one we have now. If you’re suspected of committing a serious felony, and then you run away when the police tell you to stop, then you’re probably a grave threat to the safety of the community. You’re very likely to be a menace who’s totally incompatible with civilization. And for the safety of the entire community, you need to be neutralized. If that sounds extreme to you — think about the last time you were accused of committing a felony, and then ran away from the cops when they showed up. It’s not something that happens to functioning members of civilization, ever, for any reason. It’s something that only deranged and dysfunctional people do, by definition. If you’re innocent, and you’re a functional human adult, then you know that your only choice is to fight the charges in court. Running away won’t solve anything.
In other words, even if you pretend for a second that this officer was nowhere near the front of the car — which is the opposite of the truth, which we can see on video — then Renee Good still committed a crime that, in most of this country’s history, would justify lethal force by the officer. She engaged in behavior that’s unthinkable to every sane, well-adjusted person. Why exactly should we be telling police to hold their fire, when confronted with people like this?
This is all academic of course. The fact remains that Good hit the officer with her car, which means he was perfectly legally justified — under the current law — to use lethal force. My only point is that the current law is actually far more restrictive than it should be, or ever was, until recently. Leftists have no answers to these points. And they certainly don’t have any coherent response to these latest videos, which clearly demonstrate that Renee Good was driving her car towards an ICE officer. Instead of reckoning with the truth, one after another, Democrats kept lying. But you can tell that they’re reaching, and it’s not very convincing.
Here’s the mayor of Minneapolis, Jacob Frey.
Watch:
Frey: “You had a person that was definitively trying to just get out of there. They were trying to leave the scene.”
They were actively impeding ICE officers, as we all saw, and then weaponized their vehicle against them. pic.twitter.com/01u1KwTRM2
— Rapid Response 47 (@RapidResponse47) January 11, 2026
Credit: @RapidResponse47/X.com
The utter shamelessness, even by the standards of Jacob Frey and the Democrat Party, is truly extraordinary. Yeah, she was just doing a three-point turn, just like his wife does, every day. It’s a perfect comparison, except for the fact that, when you’re doing a normal three-point turn, there isn’t a human being directly in front of your car, who you’ve been stalking and harassing all morning, and who you clearly see, with your eyes, as you press the gas pedal. When you’re doing a normal three-point turn, you’re not trying to murder a federal agent. Other than that tiny little distinction, Jacob Frey’s comparison is spot-on.
Frey tells us that the woman was just trying to “get away” — which again, is irrelevant even if it’s true. Even if she had no intention of harming the officer, she still put that officer in a reasonable, imminent fear of his life. Her attempt to “get away” was, at best, extremely dangerous and reckless. And regardless of her intent, it justified the use of lethal force.
You get the sense that most people in this country, despite the relentless lying, understand all of this. One after another, Democrats are failing to convince the public to buy into the Renee Good hoax. Their arguments are simply too weak and too transparent. Ilhan Omar for example went on CBS on Sunday to explain that the ICE officer is responsible for Good’s death because he positioned himself in front of a moving car, which isn’t true — and which still wouldn’t justify what Good did, even if it were true.
Watch:
Rep. Ilhan Omar completely distorts the facts saying Renee Good was “peacefully” sitting in her car, and the ICE agent tried to “get in front of her moving car”
Of course @CBSNews, who just promised to earn our trust back, never corrects her. 🙄 pic.twitter.com/ZinjHT5PHp
— Chief Nerd (@TheChiefNerd) January 11, 2026
Credit: @TheChiefNerd/X.com
The CBS anchor doesn’t push back on this absurd answer, even though CBS is supposedly a reformed news organization. The truth, of course, is that when law enforcement issues a lawful order — when they detain you and tell you to get out of the car — they can stand wherever they want. You don’t get to put the car in drive and move towards the officers, which is what happened in this case. Renee Good’s car was not moving, in any way, when the agents approached and told her to get out. The body camera makes that very clear. Then, instead of getting out of the car, she puts it in reverse, before throwing it in drive. She is fully responsible for everything that transpired afterwards. It’s not the job of ICE agents to dive out of the way of whatever trajectory she’s planning, which they can’t possibly know.
Even on MSNBC aka MS Now, things aren’t going much better for Democrats. A Minnesota lawmaker named Aisha Gomez was asked about the latest video evidence in the case, and she flat-out admitted that she’s not interested in watching it.
Here she is:
MN Dem State Rep Aisha Gomez says she hasn’t watched latest DHS “propaganda video” because it won’t change her mind on what happened.
“A masked federal agent ex*cute(d) someone in the street during the morning commute.”
The facts are irrelevant to the narrative. https://t.co/esQgBnt52H pic.twitter.com/mdonXxlLRl
— Western Lensman (@WesternLensman) January 11, 2026
Credit: @WesternLensman/X.com
Watching interviews like this, it’s impossible to ignore how female-driven a lot of this outrage is. It was a lesbian agitator who got herself killed, at the behest of her lesbian friend. And now a lot of unhinged women are trying — and failing — to sustain a false narrative about what happened. They’re not relying on facts or evidence, because they know they don’t have any facts or evidence. Instead, predictably, they’re getting emotional. They’re whining like children. And despite the shooting of Renee Good, they’re continuing to tail ICE vehicles and ICE agents, like it’s a game.
Here’s a small sample of what I’m talking about:
Watch:
Credit: Video collection: Tim Cast/KimKatieUSA/BreccaStoll/BubbleBathGirl/GrageDustin/EndWokeness/TONYxTWO/ViralVideos
As long as that montage was, it’s just a fraction of the clips we have, in this genre of “women harassing ICE.” It’s not hard to see that many of these women are living out a twisted psycho-sexual fantasy. They’re baiting ICE agents to “discipline” them and “put them in time out.” This is why, when the ICE agents respond to them, they’re incapable of forming a rational thought. They just start screaming and crying and stammering.
They’re also redirecting their neurotic maternal instincts for the benefit of illegal aliens, many of whom are murderers and rapists. These women don’t have children to take care of, in many cases. (Or, in the case of Renee Good, they don’t have children they seem interested in taking care of.) So, instead, they fixate on protecting the illegal aliens, on the theory that the criminals are being persecuted.
There’s nothing intelligent or coherent about any of their complaints. They know immigration laws were passed by Congress and signed by the president. They know every country on the planet has them, by necessity. They’re simply taking the opportunity to act out, and play “hero,” as if they’re living in Nazi Germany. It’s transparent and pathetic and, frankly, sometimes fairly amusing.
For example, during CNN’s live coverage the other day, a woman berated the CNN reporter, demanding to know where she worked.
And then the reporter replies, “CNN, it’s OK.”
Watch:
Hostile agitator gets right in a reporter’s face:
‘Who are you? Who do you work for?’
She answers: ‘We’re with CNN.’
Agitator: ‘OK’ turns and walks away.
Imagine if she’d said Fox News… or OAN. pic.twitter.com/m6h7Ohe8aV
— Kim “Katie” USA (@KimKatieUSA) January 11, 2026
Credit: @KimKatieUSA/X.com
That’s what we call a “mask-off moment.” The CNN reporter is affirming — as if everyone didn’t already know — that CNN is on the side of the rioters. And then the rioter immediately runs away. Wouldn’t want any friendly fire here.
But not every news outlet is compromised in quite the same way. Over at National Review, they just reported on some of the pamphlets and materials that “ICE WATCH” — the group that Renee Good was a member of — has been distributing recently.
One of those pamphlets advises members like Renee Good to, “BLOCK THE KIDNAPPERS CARS WITH MULTIPLE CARS.” There’s also the suggestion that white people should offer themselves as human shields for illegal aliens — apparently because they believe white privilege is a literal shield against all physical harm. That’s not an abstract or metaphorical point for these people. It’s their genuine belief.
Then there’s this pamphlet from the same group.
ICE DEAREST PRIMER https://pbs.twimg.com/media/G-QV7tracAAN1Cn?format=jpg&name=large
It teaches members how to “de-arrest” illegals. It reads, “One basic and pretty effective implementation of this tactic is totally surrounding the officers who have the arrestee or otherwise blocking them and/or their vehicle and chanting LET THEM GO.”
This is the kind of propaganda that resonates with dumb, unhinged women like Renee Good — who, by the way, looked a lot less crazy just a few years ago, before she became heavily involved in Left-wing activism. (Of course, the media isn’t running those newer photos.) It’s also the kind of activism that her child’s school, called Southside, would probably approve of.
Here’s a video I found from the school a few years ago.
Watch:
Credit: Center for Community-Engaged Learning/YouTube.com
Yes, a school for kindergartners makes everything — everything, including math and science — about “social justice.” They have some of their students, in a K-8 school, participating in protests and marches on the street. And of course the parents are also part of this campaign. The parents connect and join groups, like ICE Watch, where they coordinate campaigns to harass law enforcement.
It should go without saying that there is no reason for a school like this to receive any federal tax benefits or funding — which the Southside school does receive, at the moment. They aren’t schools at all. They’re indoctrination centers. They’re teaching an ideology that directly inspires domestic terrorists. The Trump administration, at a minimum, should cut all of these so-called “nonprofit” schools off. Eliminate all their funding.
Schools like this turn lawlessness into a lifestyle choice. It’s the kind of propaganda that convinces women like Good to abandon the one child they’re still allowed to take care of, and spend their day on the streets, harassing ICE officers.
But it’s important to understand that these women are not the entire problem. They’re a major problem, because they vote and own cars. But they’re not the full extent of it. In St. Cloud Minnesota, a mob of Somalis just chased off some DHS agents in a scene that looked like something out of Mogadishu.
Watch:
New footage from St. Cloud, MN: Somali mob rushes DHS agents during a raid with overwhelming numbers.@Sec_Noem – agents need reinforcements and National Guard on the ground.
Without superior force, these mobs will feel unstoppable, and you will have Mogasota on your hands. pic.twitter.com/jn41BRlCAF
— Kim “Katie” USA (@KimKatieUSA) January 10, 2026
Credit: @KimKatieUSA/X.com
We’re getting very, very close to a “Black Hawk Down” moment in Minnesota. We try to feed these people, try to help them — and they respond with barbarism, because that’s all they’re capable of. Their warlords are becoming belligerent, now that we’ve uncovered their scheme to steal our food. And now they feel threatened, because their fraud has been exposed. All of them need to be deported by ICE — or if necessary, by the U.S. military.
And that is, indeed, where Democrats want this crisis to go. Democrats in power will happily use any demographic group — whether it’s unhinged women or sub-literate Somalis — to trigger a broader, more violent civil conflict in this country. They want to provoke more incidents like this one, until they get the violence they’re looking for. The overriding policy goal of the Democrat Party, for the better part of a decade, has been to cause a domestic color revolution in this country. If not a full-on civil war, they want widespread riots and social upheaval that dismantles our constitutional order and the rule of law. In this case, they want a direct, violent conflict between the states and officers of the federal government.
For their part, ICE is aware of what Democrats are planning. And they appear to be preparing for it.
Watch:
Philadelphia “Sheriff” @PhilaSheriff Rochelle Bilal should resign before she embarrasses herself any further.
“Arresting ICE officers”?
Try it. See what happens. pic.twitter.com/IZgvHN9RyV
— U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (@ICEgov) January 10, 2026
Credit: @ICEgov/X.com
The smiling, clueless women who are currently throwing their lives away on behalf of Somali rapists in the streets of Minneapolis are not capable of grasping the consequences of something like this. If the state of Minnesota decides to ignore federal sovereignty, and attempts to arrest and prosecute ICE agents — or kill them outright — then many other Democrat-run states will follow. The people living in these states do not respect any election in which they lose. That’s why they invented the Russiagate hoax. And it’s why they’re openly talking about insurrection now — even though, again, Trump told us he would enforce immigration law, and most Americans voted for him.
At that point — once ICE agents are targeted by the states — the federal government would have no choice but to send in the military to restore order. That will be the inevitable and necessary response to civil disorder, which is spiraling out of control as we speak. Already, Antifa rioters are destroying buildings in Minnesota — particularly hotels where they believe ICE agents may be staying. Several hotels were attacked over the weekend.
🚨
BREAKING: Antifa cells bust open door and start destroying lobby pic.twitter.com/mchhi1cp40
— Human Events (@HumanEvents) January 10, 2026
Credit: @HumanEvents/X.com
That’s the “war” that Tim Walz keeps talking about. And if it happens, it won’t look anything like the TikTok videos that these middle-aged women are posting right now, where they harass ICE officers in the middle of the street. It will be a war that suddenly makes America look an awful lot like the dysfunctional third-world hellholes where all of these “migrants” are coming from.
Of course, that’s always been the goal of mass migration and white replacement. It’s always been the goal of the modern Democrat Party to end American exceptionalism. That’s why they’re lying about Renee Good, a woman they don’t remotely care about, even though the facts of the case clearly disprove their entire narrative. They see her as the first casualty of a much, much larger war that they want to fight. And they’ll eventually get what they’re looking for, unless the Trump administration immediately dismantles all of the groups that are organizing these attacks on federal law enforcement. They’re all over the Internet, operating with impunity — and with substantial financial assistance, in many cases. Shut it down. Bring RICO and terrorism cases. Do what you should’ve done after Charlie Kirk’s murder. Wage war against the terrorists because, as the Renee Good case demonstrates very clearly, they are already waging war against us.
Continue reading this exclusive article and join the conversation, plus watch free videos on DW+
Already a member?