Brian Thompson, the 50-year-old CEO of UnitedHealthcare who was gunned down in Midtown Manhattan on Wednesday, was one of multiple executives at his company who were being investigated by the Department of Justice for insider trading.
Thompson was shot and killed in what authorities believe was a “brazen targeted attack” before he made it to the Hilton hotel to take part in his company’s annual Investor’s Conference. The New York Post reported that Thompson and several other executives at UnitedHealth Group are facing a DOJ probe. United Healthcare is a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group, one of the largest companies in the world.
On February 16 of this year, Thompson sold shares worth $15.1 million just two weeks before the public found out about a federal antitrust probe, according to Crain’s New York Business. The DOJ was reportedly investigating whether UnitedHealth Group violated antitrust laws by making acquisitions that consolidated its market position. Thompson’s sale of his shares earlier this year was his first since taking over the company in 2021, according to the Post. Thompson, UnitedHealth Group Chairman Stephen Helmsley, Chief People Officer Erin McSweeney, and Chief Accounting Officer Tom Roos sold a combined $101.5 million in shares.
Another subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group was also targeted in a ransomware attack earlier this year, which resulted in up to one-third of Americans’ data, including social security numbers, potentially being compromised. The company ended up paying a $22 million ransom to the hackers. The ransomware attack cost the massive company an estimated $705 million when business disruption was factored in, Reuters reported.
CHECK OUT THE DAILY WIRE HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE
Video footage showed Thompson being targeted in an execution-style shooting outside the Hilton hotel in Midtown. The suspect, who authorities believe is a male, was wearing a black hoodie and black mask and carrying a gray backpack. After he fired at Thompson, the suspect’s gun appeared to malfunction, but the shooter fixed the jam and continued firing, showing he is likely familiar with using firearms.
Thompson’s wife told NBC News that her husband has faced multiple death threats, but added that she did not know the specifics of the threats.
“There had been some threats. Basically, I don’t know, a lack of coverage? I don’t know details. I just know that he said there were some people that had been threatening him,” she said.
Police are offering a $10,000 reward for information on the suspect. Authorities believe he fled the scene on foot before getting on a city e-bike and riding into Central Park.