WASHINGTON—FBI Director Kash Patel argued Wednesday that the bureau deals with “facts” and not “conspiracy theories” as he addressed speculation over the assassination of Turning Point USA Founder Charlie Kirk.
An ideological assassin killed Kirk as he spoke on September 10 at Utah Valley University, and the investigation into the assassination is ongoing. Authorities have identified Tyler Robinson as the killer, a young man who lived with his “transgender partner,” a male attempting to transition to a transgender female. That individual, identified as 22-year-old Lance Twiggs, is reported to be fully cooperating with federal authorities.
Since Kirk’s death, online commentators and social media users have wildly speculated about theories surrounding Kirk’s assassination, including the idea that Robinson was not the killer, that foreign nations were involved in killing Kirk, and criticisms of Kirk’s grieving widow and her decision to carry on Turning Point’s mission.
In the Oval Office on Wednesday, when asked if he could give an update on the investigation into Kirk’s death in light of online speculation, Patel told The Daily Wire that the FBI is focused solely on “facts.”
“The only thing we deal with at the FBI and DOJ is facts,” Patel responded, flanked by President Donald Trump and Attorney General Pam Bondi.
“We delivered in record speed a manhunt to capture Charlie Kirk’s alleged assassin in 33 hours,” he explained. “If you put that in perspective to Luigi Mangione or the Boston bomber, they took them five days, and a police officer lost their life in the manhunt.”
.@MaryMargOlohan: Do you have any updates on Charlie Kirk’s assassination in light of the conspiracy theories circulating online? @FBIDirectorKash: “The only thing we deal with at the FBI and DOJ is facts…the best thing we can do to honor my friend Charlie Kirk’s life is to… pic.twitter.com/erEa5qqdrO
— Daily Wire (@realDailyWire) October 15, 2025
“We are running on absolutely every single lead, and the best thing we can do to honor my friend Charlie Kirk’s life is to make sure that everyone involved is prosecuted to the full extent of the law,” Patel said. “And that’s what we are focused on, investigating the facts, not trading in conspiracy theories.”
On Tuesday, President Trump honored Kirk posthumously with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Kirk’s friends and family gathered Tuesday at the White House in the Rose Garden, newly renovated by the president, to honor Kirk’s memory and to recognize him for his patriotic contributions to the United States of America.
Erika Kirk, Charlie Kirk’s widow, was present and emotional at the event, as were many members of the Turning Point USA organization. The event was purposefully held on Tuesday, October 14, the day that should have been Kirk’s 32nd birthday, and Trump said in his remarks that he cut his historic trip to the Middle East short in order to be home in time to honor Kirk on his birthday.
“Five weeks ago, our nation was robbed of this extraordinary champion. He was a champion in every way — I got to know him so well,” President Trump said.
“It was a horrible, heinous, demonic act of murder. He was assassinated in the prime of his life for boldly speaking the truth, for living his faith, and relentlessly fighting for a better and stronger America. He loved this country, and that’s why this afternoon, it’s my privilege to posthumously award Charles James Kirk our nation’s highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom.”