Sen. John Fetterman (D-PA), who has broken with the Left’s orthodoxy numerous times, did it again, ripping into leftists on social media who celebrated the alleged murderer of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
Thompson was shot to death on December 4 outside an entrance to the New York Hilton Midtown in Manhattan. A suspect has been arrested for his murder, and many leftists cheered the killing.
“He’s the a**hole that’s going to die in prison,” Fetterman stated. “Congratulations if you want to celebrate that. A sewer is going to sewer. That’s what social media is about. And I don’t know why the media wants to turn that into a story, just with these trolls saying these kinds of things anonymously like that. I don’t know why that’s news. Remember, he has two children that are going to grow up without their father… It’s vile. And if you’ve gunned someone down that you don’t happen to agree with their views or the business that they’re in, hey, you know, I’m next, they’re next, he’s next, she’s next.”
.@JohnFetterman on Luigi Mangione and the online reaction: “He’s the asshole that’s going to die in prison. Congratulations if you want to celebrate that. A sewer is going to sewer. That’s what social media is about this. And I don’t know why the media wants to turn that into a…
— Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) December 10, 2024
Other examples of Fetterman breaking with the Left: Last May, Fetterman ripped off his Harvard University collar during a commencement speech at Yeshiva University in New York. Fetterman, an alumnus of Harvard and a vocal supporter of Israel since the October 7, 2023, Hamas massacre of more than 1200 people in Israel, said, “I have been profoundly disappointed in the way — Harvard’s inability to stand up for the Jewish community after October 7. And for me personally, I do not fundamentally believe that it is right for me to wear this today.”
CHECK OUT THE DAILY WIRE HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE
Prior to that, in April, Fetterman expressed his support for law enforcement, saying to the New York Post, “Squatters have no rights. How can you even pretend that this is anything other than you’re just breaking the law? … I am not woke. … It’s wild that if you go away on a long trip, for 30 days, and someone breaks into your home and suddenly they have rights. This is crazy. Like if somebody stole your car, and then they held it for 30 days, then somehow you now have some rights?”
There have been other times when Fetterman has aligned himself with the Left’s movements; only days before the November election, he said that those who do not believe in supporting the Democrats’ radical transgender agenda are “a**hole[s].”
Speaking with CNN’s Dana Bash on “State of the Union” about political ads from the Trump campaign about the issue, he said, “If your political capital comes from picking on trans kids or gay kids or anything like that, that’s — you’re just bankrupt throughout all of this. … My version of being a being a man is, it’s like, hey, I like ribeyes, I like Motorhead, and I’m never going to pick on trans kids and gay kids or things. And it’s just sad that the other side chooses to kind of pick on members of those communities. And, again, it’s just — it’s just a warped version of — it doesn’t make you tough. It doesn’t make you a man to pick on trans or gay kids. … It just makes you an a**hole.”
Ryan Saavedra contributed to this article.
RELATED: Suspected UnitedHealthcare CEO Assassin Fights Extradition To New York