A day after Charlie Kirk was assassinated while debating college students in Utah, I said that it was important to gather as much information as possible before drawing any conclusions about culpability — and before implementing the kind of crackdown on Left-wing extremism in this country that, for many years, we’ve all suspected would be necessary. Now, several days later, we have gathered those facts.
The assassination of Charlie Kirk was unequivocally an act of LGBT terrorism. More evidence will come out soon. That’s what I’ve been told personally from sources who are familiar with the FBI’s investigation. But already, the evidence is overwhelming. Charlie Kirk was murdered by a Leftist who was in a relationship with a man who identifies as transgender. The shooter engraved his ammunition with messages that are commonly used by Left-wing Antifa groups, as well as a reference to a fetish subculture. Days before the murder, several trans-identifying individuals, and people in their social groups, posted messages on social media indicating that they were aware that the assassination would soon take place.
Credit: @NajraGalvz/X
One of those messages read, “Charlie Kirk is coming to my college tomorrow, I really hope someone evaporates him literally … Let’s just say something big will happen tomorrow.” The account that posted that threat is now suspended from X.
Credit: @fujoshincel/X
Another post, from five days before the shooting, indicated that something “BIG” was coming soon. Then, after the shooting, the author wrote, “Well that’s that” and “Another Chud bites the dust.”
Here’s another.
Credit: @Anc_Aesthetics/X (@TallyHallAlbum)
This one was written on September 3rd. It begins, “it’d be funny if someone like charlie kirk got shot on september 10th.”
The username of the author of this post, as Cassandra Macdonald of Gateway Pundit has pointed out, is “tally hall album.” And coincidentally enough, the man who shot Charlie Kirk, Tyler Robinson, had a publicly visible playlist of songs by the band Tally Hall on Spotify.
Additionally, the shooter’s trans-identifying boyfriend, MacDonald reported, was active on the Tally Hall subreddit.
This is just a sample of some publicly available posts that appeared to predict Charlie Kirk’s murder. We can obviously assume, based on these posts, that the actual number of people with advance knowledge of the attack was quite high.
Additionally, shortly after the assassination, another post, written by someone who was in the same friend network as the trans-identifying man who was dating the shooter, read simply, “WE F—-ING DID IT.” Then, a pro-trans organization in Utah called “Armed Queers SLC” took down its Instagram page entirely. According to the New York Post, Armed Queers SLC has a, “logo [that] features two high-powered rifle rounds similar to the one that struck Kirk.” The group also, “hosted a lecture on ‘queer resistance’ at the University of Utah in September, 2023 — around 45 miles from Utah Valley University where the 31-year-old Turning Point USA founder and Trump ally lost his life.”
Even people with direct knowledge of the shooter continued to protect him after the assassination. The New York Times is reporting that members of the shooter’s Discord channel were joking with him about the possibility that he was the shooter, based on the photographs released by the FBI. And yet, none of the members of that Discord group actually turned him in.
WATCH: The Matt Walsh Show
But maybe the clearest possible sign that Charlie was murdered as part of a coordinated Leftist campaign to terrorize conservatives is that, over the past several days, his comrades have completely disavowed him. Even as hundreds of thousands of Leftists openly gloat over Charlie Kirk’s murder — from neurologists to school teachers to military service members to entertainers to the chief of police of Durham to the entire population of Reddit and Bluesky — these same Leftists are pretending, in defiance of all the evidence, that the shooter was actually a MAGA white supremacist. They’re pushing the fantasy that Charlie Kirk was murdered because he wasn’t Right-wing enough. They know it’s not true. They know that no rational person will believe it. But they’re saying it anyway. The official talking point of the Left is that Charlie Kirk was killed by the Right.
This is a maneuver that, for communist regimes, has always been an old standby. They don’t actually care about their foot soldiers — even foot soldiers who throw their lives away for the cause. They certainly don’t care about the truth. All that matters to Leftists is their collective mission. The shooter fulfilled part of the Left’s mission by killing Charlie — by murdering someone who dared to engage them in free and open debates that they could not win. And now the shooter is fulfilling another mission. He’s a useful tool to defame and malign the Right.
There are too many examples on this front to list. But here’s a few. We’ll start with Reddit, one of the many cesspools that should immediately be investigated by federal authorities as a breeding ground for domestic terrorism.
Credit: Screenshot/Reddit
Here’s a sample of the posts: “The bella ciao thing found on the ammo casings is a nick fuentes thing.” … “He seems like an online Nick Fuentes groyper.” … “Yep, groypers have been against Charlie Kirk for a long time.”
Then when someone asks what a groyper is, the response is, “Alt-right white nationalist Christian nationalist followers of Nick Fuentes.”
It’s impossible to overstate how aggressively this message is being pushed on Reddit and Bluesky. It’s also all over Facebook. It’s not an exaggeration to say the majority of Leftists probably believe it. They’re claiming that a gay man who was dating a trans-identifying man, who openly told his family and friends that he hated Charlie Kirk, who was steeped in Left-wing ideology according to the governor of Utah, and who wrote Antifa messaging on the bullet casings, was actually, in truth, a big fan of Nick Fuentes.
To be clear, Antifa terrorists have been citing the “bella ciao” song for a long time, as Andy Ngo has pointed out — including in 2019, when an Antifa shooter cited the song in a manifesto before attacking an ICE facility. Additionally, one of the ringleaders of Antifa in Los Angeles owns a company called “Bella Ciao Cinema.” This is an old World War II song that’s been repurposed by Antifa today. Everyone knows this. But on Reddit, they’re pretending otherwise.
Prominent outlets like CNN are doing their best to further the same narrative. Take a look at this screenshot of CNN’s homepage the other day.
Credit: Screenshot/CNN
There are nine stories about Charlie Kirk’s assassination. None of them discusses the shooter’s motive, or his belief in Left-wing ideology and his connection to transgenderism. None of them discusses the gloating of Leftists, or the messages that predicted the attack. Instead, the stories are about the job Kash Patel is doing, or how Leftists are getting fired for celebrating Kirk’s death, or how the shooter’s father turned him in.
Meanwhile, all over social media, major figures in the American Left are openly lying.
Here’s Harvard professor Lawrence Tribe, for example.
Credit: @tribelaw/X
“Kirk’s apparent assassin seems to have been ultra-MAGA, exploding the GOP/MAGA attempt to pin the blame for this tragedy on liberals.”
This is the same line that was used after the first Trump assassination attempt, as you probably remember. Democrats said the shooting was either staged, or that the shooter was somehow a Trump supporter. Only this time, we’re not just hearing that claim from a handful of big names. It’s coming from everywhere.
Here’s the chair of Minnesota’s DFL, for example. This is basically the state Democrat Party.
“The shooter didn’t think Kirk was right-wing enough. The reference to groyper is linked to a rival right-wing ideologue.”
Charlie Kirk should be alive today. Political violence must not be tolerated.
The shooter didn’t think Kirk was right-wing enough. The reference to groyper is linked to a rival right-wing ideologue. https://t.co/dNQLjhx2tc
— Richard Carlbom (@richardcarlbom) September 13, 2025
This is a declarative statement, from a top Democrat in Minnesota, that has no basis in reality. He talks about a “reference to groyper” with no citation whatsoever. It’s completely made up.
Meanwhile the LA Times apparently cited an expert who decided that Charlie Kirk was shot in a white supremacist gang hit.
Credit: @jemelehill.bsky.social/BlueSky.com
Then there’s this post from Jackie Sartoris, the DA in Portland Maine who was recently installed with the help of George Soros.
She wants you to know that, “There are now increasing questions about the actual shooters’ possible affinity with the extreme far right. … This may have involved a beef between alt-right-winger Nick Fuentes and the victim.”
That’s a government official — a prosecutor — who’s supposed to care about things like evidence and facts. So much for that.
Over on X, you’ll find posts with tens of millions of views, and hundreds of thousands of “likes,” with the exact same message. Huge numbers of people are spreading the claim that the shooter was a right-winger. Here’s one example. This one has 30 million views and 400,000 likes:
So the killer of Charlie Kirk is:
Tyler Robinson:
White boy,
Right Wing,
Republican,
Wealthy Family,
Born and raised in UtahThis is bad week for MAGA pic.twitter.com/bN7wAjXaOU
— The Black Tucker Carlson Jr 🇺🇸 (@B1TuckerCarlson) September 12, 2025
Credit: @B1TuckerCarlson/X
Here’s another one.This one has 10 million views and 100,000 likes:
According to Utah officials + police interviews with his family, Tyler Robinson hated Charlie Kirk because Kirk wasn’t conservative enough. (Robinson reportedly admired Nick Fuentes). GOPer’s now scrubbing X posts about dems faster than DOJ erases Trump name in Epstein files.
— David Shuster (@DavidShuster) September 12, 2025
Credit: @DavidShuster/X
Perhaps one of the worst examples is Randi Weingarten, the president of the largest teacher’s union in the country. She reposted a post from someone named Jeannie Rider.
The post says: “the leftist students in Utah who didn’t want Charlie Kirk to speak did what leftists do: they signed petitions, staged a protest, and lined up to challenge him. The right winger who didn’t want Charlie Kirk to speak did what right wingers to and shot him. We are not the same.”
Randi reposted this inverted reality nonsense with the caption, “This seems important to state.”
Yes, to the leader of the largest teacher’s union in the country, it’s not only important to state total, absolute nonsense and lies that completely flip reality on its head, but it’s also important to brand all right wingers as violent killers.
This one is huge. Meet Randi Weingarten. She’s the PRESIDENT of the American Federation of Teachers. Seemingly, she thinks that it’s befitting her role and position to spread dangerous lies and brand all Right Wingers as murderers. Get this radical left lunatic away from schools. pic.twitter.com/DpleJhEa7s
— Sólionath (@Anarseldain) September 14, 2025
Credit: @Anarseldain/X
Go on Reddit or Bluesky and you’ll find hundreds of thousands of people who are “liking” and “upvoting” various posts like this. If you know any Leftists, there’s a good chance you’re seeing the same content all over your social media feeds, as well.
None of it’s remotely true. There’s no source for any of it, because it’s false. Just to be totally clear about this: any suggestion that Charlie was killed by a right-winger is a flat out, bald faced lie. There is no evidence of that. None. At all.
All of the evidence points to left-wing LGBT extremists. This was not a groyper. This was not a Nick Fuentes acolyte. And by the way, even if the killer was a right-wing extremist — which he definitely, unequivocally was not — the Left would still own Charlie’s murder because they have TAKEN ownership of it. They’ve spent the last four days since his assassination celebrating en masse. Thousands upon thousands of them have personally endorsed the man who slaughtered Charlie. So that even if that man were a right-wing Republican — which again he is not — he would still, now, be one of their own by adoption. They own this because they have said so themselves. Thousands of them have. But again: the killer is not right-wing.
Yet there’s no point in fact-checking like this. There’s no point in engaging with any of the people who are posting this content, and trying to persuade them that, based on the evidence, they’re wrong.
That’s what Charlie attempted to do. What he did with unmatched skill, not to mention patience. The Left has made the decision to respond to that kind of dialogue with violence. And when I say “the Left,” I’m not using a shorthand. I’m not painting with too broad a brush. I am referring to the Left. I am referring to Antifa. I am referring to sites like Reddit and Bluesky. And most of all, I’m referring to the Democrat Party. All of these organizations are dominated by — and under the complete control of — demons who either participated in the murder of Charlie Kirk, or who celebrate it. They resemble a domestic terror cell because that’s exactly what they are. And they need to be treated like it.
If you think that’s overstated, here’s Ilhan Omar, the darling of the Democrat Party. Her response to Kirk’s assassination was to repost a video declaring that, “Kirk was a reprehensible human being… a stochastic terrorist… With his last dying words, he was spewing racist dog whistles. Charlie Kirk was Dr. Frankenstein, and his monster shot him through the neck.”
Then she gave this interview, in which she suggested that Kirk had it coming because he wasn’t a fan of Juneteenth, and didn’t believe the myth that George Floyd was murdered. Watch:
Rep. Ilhan Omar is happy Charlie Kirk was kiIIed: “He downplayed George Floyd. He opposed Juneteenth.”
Look at their grins pic.twitter.com/Ra5Eg4MZ3k
— End Wokeness (@EndWokeness) September 11, 2025
Credit: @EndWokeness/X
Charlie Kirk’s public debates have been recorded for many years. She’s right about that. And those debates prove the exact opposite of the point she’s trying to make. That’s why hundreds of thousands of students, including Democrats, showed up to his events. They knew that they wouldn’t get shouted down. They wouldn’t be violently attacked. They wouldn’t suffer any consequences whatsoever. They’d be able to engage with a leading conservative voice, at length, in a respectful forum. And then the footage would be uploaded, in its entirety, online. That’s what Charlie provided. It’s one of the main reasons so many young men voted Republican in the last election. He allowed Leftists to speak. And in doing so, they revealed that they were unhinged, incoherent, and dangerous radicals. That’s why they killed him.
But really, none of this matters. Even if Charlie were the bully they’re painting him to be, which he wasn’t, that still obviously wouldn’t be any justification to murder him. And if Ilhan Omar were a decent American — or an American at all — she’d understand that. So would the rest of the Democrat Party. Instead, within hours of Charlie Kirk’s assassination, in a terrorist attack designed to silence conservatives, they’re gloating over his body and encouraging more violence — against Charlie’s wife and against any other conservative who steps out of line.
Only the Left operates like this. The Left is responsible for torching federal courthouses, churches, and small businesses during BLM. They’re responsible for the massacre of Christian children in schools and churches. They’re responsible for multiple attempts on the president’s life, as well as violent attacks on pro-life pregnancy centers. They’re responsible for vandalizing Teslas and torching Tesla storefronts. They’re the ones attacking ICE agents. The Left has a near-total monopoly on politically motivated violence in this country. It was a Tim Walz appointee, apparently suffering from schizophrenia, who murdered that lawmaker in Minnesota. It was Trump supporters — and Trump supporters alone — who died on January 6. Political violence has been going in only one direction for a long time now.
And that’s by design. The Left’s domestic terror operation is well-established at this point. Billionaires like George Soros fund various NGOs and political candidates and media personalities who talk like Ilhan Omar. They declare that conservatives are Nazis and that all conservatives are fascists who demonize oppressed people or whatever. They also tell highly disturbed individuals — particularly people who identify as transgender — that they’re being “genocided” by these “fascists.” They’ll open the prisons and allow the most deranged members of society to continue tormenting normal people. And then the politicians and the billionaires sit back and watch as their deranged foot soldiers carry out acts of domestic terrorism. And then, after those acts of terrorism are carried out, the politicians gloat and blame the other side — showing clear consciousness of guilt.
Among other things, this is a criminal enterprise. It’s maybe the single most dangerous criminal enterprise to ever exist in this country, because it poses a direct threat to our most important civil liberty, which is the right to free expression. And it needs to be dismantled. It can be dismantled at all three levels. Billionaires like George Soros can be indicted on RICO charges, as Donald Trump himself suggested the other day. Criminal aliens like Ilhan Omar can be denaturalized and deported immediately for lying on their applications for citizenship when they pledged loyalty to America (and where they said they weren’t married to their brother). And the entire industry of transgenderism can be demolished overnight, with a federal ban on any kind of so-called “gender-affirming care.” The so-called doctors who would mutilate and sterilize patients in service of this ideology can be sent to federal prison.
All of these steps are necessary. After Charlie Kirk’s assassination, and the facts that have been gathered in the aftermath, there’s no doubt about it. Terrorism against conservatives is only going to intensify from here. A year ago, at the University of Minnesota Duluth, the president of the “Young Democratic Socialists of America” threatened to shoot up the local Turning Point USA chapter, forcing a Turning Point representative to flee the campus. “I’d line all you mother f*****s up against the wall and shoot you,” the socialist said. Nothing was done. The DSA chapter wasn’t dismantled. And that’s normally how these things go. The Left terrorizes. The Right doesn’t respond. And in turn, the terrorism intensifies.
This must end. It is now abundantly clear that America isn’t divided into two political parties. We’re divided into one political party, and one cartel that aids and abets domestic terrorism. They are deliberately provoking some of the most deranged and hopeless members of society: people who are already in a state of deep-seated psychosis. And now that those individuals are realizing that they’re losing, that they really can’t transform into members of the opposite sex, they’re doing exactly what the Left wants them to do. The LGBT terror cells have been activated. And they’re effective terror cells because trans ideology is a death cult — the largest, most well-funded, and deranged death cult that this country has ever seen.
We shouldn’t be surprised by this. Two weeks ago I said that trans extremists are losing badly, they’re desperate, and that makes them more dangerous than they’ve ever been. I said it would get worse. Two weeks later, Charlie Kirk was shot and killed by an LGBT militant with a trans boyfriend. I say again now: this will get worse. We need to take this threat seriously.
That doesn’t mean we need to deliver speeches about unity, or sing kumbaya and tell everyone to come together. It means we need to utterly destroy every trans terror cell like the one that killed Charlie. And it also means that we need to destroy the criminal institutions that are enabling their insanity, rather than treating it. And then we have to move up the chain of Leftist terror, to the nonprofits and the billionaires. The more they gloat over Charlie’s dead body, and the more they threaten to murder more conservatives, the harder we have to push.
We cannot stop until conservatives are free to exercise their First Amendment rights in this country. Until that happens, we do not have a free society. We do not have any rights at all, to any meaningful degree. And in that environment, we don’t owe our enemies any kind of restraint or any mercy. They must be crushed, if civil liberties are to mean anything in America. At the moment, all of the indications I have are that the Trump Administration understands all of this. Now they need to do something the federal government never did under the previous administration, which is to defend the civil liberties of American citizens, and disarm and dismantle every domestic terrorist organization and militant LGBT group posing as a legitimate political institution. That’s a very, very long list to get through. With ruthlessness and without apology, now is the time to start.
Continue reading this exclusive article and join the conversation, plus watch free videos on DW+
Already a member?