Prayers and well-wishes flooded social media after conservative commentator and Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk was shot in the neck while speaking at Utah Valley University on Wednesday.
Video circulated of the shooting, which took place about 20 minutes after Kirk began speaking. A loud crack could be heard before Kirk jerked back and then slumped to the side in his chair. School officials told local news outlets that the shot had been fired from atop the Losee Center, about 200 yards from where Kirk was speaking.
Kirk appeared to be hit in the neck by a single shot while speaking at one of his signature college campus events, and his condition remains unknown. Many of Kirk’s friends and fellow conservatives around the country encouraged their followers to lift up Kirk, a devout Christian, in prayer. Kirk is also a husband and a father of two small children.
Shortly after reports of the shooting began spreading on social media, Utah Republican Senator Mike Lee posted, “Shots fired at @charliekirk11 event at Utah Valley University. This is a good time to pray.”
Utah’s other Republican Senator, John Curtis, added, “My heart goes out to Charlie, those in attendance, and their families. We are praying for his safety and the well-being of everyone impacted. My team and I will continue to gather more information as it becomes available and are closely monitoring the situation. I am grateful for the swift response of law enforcement and first responders working to secure the campus.”
After initially calling for everyone to pray for Kirk, Vice President JD Vance shared a photo and another statement. “Dear God, protect Charlie in his darkest hour,” he said.
Dear God, protect Charlie in his darkest hour. pic.twitter.com/RqNYfHLs2b
— JD Vance (@JDVance) September 10, 2025
President Donald Trump gave a similar statement, saying, “We must all pray for Charlie Kirk, who has been shot. A great guy from top to bottom. GOD BLESS HIM!”
“We must all pray for Charlie Kirk, who has been shot. A great guy from top to bottom. GOD BLESS HIM!” – President Donald J. Trump pic.twitter.com/GqYC4QdhA1
— The White House (@WhiteHouse) September 10, 2025
“Charlie Kirk is a good man, doing big things for this country. I truly hope he’s okay,” comedian Adam Carolla offered his thoughts as well.
Charlie Kirk is a good man, doing big things for this country. I truly hope he’s okay.
— Adam Carolla (@adamcarolla) September 10, 2025
“Prayers for Charlie Kirk,” War Secretary Pete Hegseth added. “An incredible Christian, American, and human being. May the healing hand of Jesus Christ be upon him.”
Prayers for Charlie Kirk.
An incredible Christian, American, and human being. May the healing hand of Jesus Christ be upon him.
— Pete Hegseth (@PeteHegseth) September 10, 2025
“Charlie Kirk is one of the finest humans I know. Everyone please lift him and his family up in prayer,” Donald Trump Jr. said.
Charlie Kirk is one of the finest humans I know. Everyone please lift him and his family up in prayer.
— Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) September 10, 2025
Actor and comedian Rob Schneider posted, “As we pray for our dear friend and brother in Christ, American Patriot, Father, Husband and son, Charlie Kirk, We know that our God is a loving God. And we must remember that vengeance is the Lord’s. Not ours. Deuteronomy 32:35 ‘To me belongeth vengeance, and recompence [sic]; their foot shall slide in due time: for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste.’ May Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior bless and heal our brother Charlie, and give peace to his family and friends at this time.”
As we pray for our dear friend and brother in Christ, American Patriot, Father, Husband and son, Charlie Kirk,
We know that our God is a loving God. And we must remember that vengeance is the Lord’s. Not ours.Deuteronomy 32:35
“To me belongeth vengeance, and recompence; their…— Rob Schneider 🇺🇸 (@RobSchneider) September 10, 2025
“Charlie Kirk is a great man and a great fighter for the cause. Most importantly he’s a husband and a father. I’m praying for him and his family right now. Please do the same,” The Daily Wire’s Matt Walsh added.
Charlie Kirk is a great man and a great fighter for the cause. Most importantly he’s a husband and a father. I’m praying for him and his family right now. Please do the same.
— Matt Walsh (@MattWalshBlog) September 10, 2025
New Daily Wire host Isabel Brown added, “Please stop what you’re doing and pray for Charlie Kirk. PLEASE.”
Please stop what you’re doing and pray for Charlie Kirk.
PLEASE.
— Isabel Brown (@theisabelb) September 10, 2025
“Charlie Kirk is a great friend and an amazing person! Lara, Luke, Carolina and I will be praying for him, his wife Erika and their 2 children,” Eric Trump said.
Charlie Kirk is a great friend and an amazing person! Lara, Luke, Carolina and I will be praying for him, his wife Erika and their 2 children.
— Eric Trump (@EricTrump) September 10, 2025
Governor Ron DeSantis (R-FL) said, “I’ve been briefed on the shooting in Utah. Casey and I are praying for Charlie Kirk and his family.”
I’ve been briefed on the shooting in Utah. Casey and I are praying for Charlie Kirk and his family.
— Ron DeSantis (@GovRonDeSantis) September 10, 2025
“Lord, place Your healing hands on my friend Charlie Kirk,” Ben Carson posted. “Please join me in praying for him right now. I don’t care who says prayer doesn’t work. They are wrong and it’s what we do.”
Lord, place Your healing hands on my friend Charlie Kirk.
Please join me in praying for him right now. I don’t care who says prayer doesn’t work. They are wrong and it’s what we do.
— Ben & Candy Carson (@RealBenCarson) September 10, 2025
“We love you Charlie Kirk. Praying for you,” Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said.
We love you Charlie Kirk. Praying for you. https://t.co/ti1viJjM5L
— Secretary Kennedy (@SecKennedy) September 10, 2025
Canadian Conservative leader Pierre Poilievre gave a statement as well, saying, “We must all strongly denounce the shooting of Charlie Kirk. Political violence is NEVER justified. The attacker must be brought to justice. And free speech must be upheld. Pray for Mr. Kirk and his family.”
We must all strongly denounce the shooting of Charlie Kirk. Political violence is NEVER justified. The attacker must be brought to justice. And free speech must be upheld.
Pray for Mr. Kirk and his family.
— Pierre Poilievre (@PierrePoilievre) September 10, 2025
“Absolutely disgusting and disturbing video from Charlie Kirk shooting today,” Barstool Sports owner Dave Portnoy posted. “Hoping for the best for him and his family. Anybody who is happy about this is a disgusting human.”
Absolutely disgusting and disturbing video from Charlie Kirk shooting today. Hoping for the best for him and his family. Anybody who is happy about this is a disgusting human.
— Dave Portnoy (@stoolpresidente) September 10, 2025
“I feel sick to my stomach. Charlie Kirk,” Fox News National Correspondent Bill Melugin posted, adding a praying emoji.
I feel sick to my stomach.
Charlie Kirk 🙏🏻
— Bill Melugin (@BillMelugin_) September 10, 2025
Numerous politicians also posted that they were praying for Kirk.
- House Speaker Mike Johnson (R-LA): “Please join us in praying for our good friend, Charlie Kirk.”
- Senate Majority Leader John Thune (R-SD): “There is no place in our country for political violence. Period, full stop.”
- Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX): “This is horrific. I am stunned. @charliekirk11 is a good friend—we’ve been friends since he was a teenager—and a courageous leader. Heidi & I are praying for Charlie right now. May God’s healing hand be upon him.”
- Sen John Fetterman (D-PA): “I condemn this in the strongest terms. There is ZERO place in our great country for these horrendous acts of political violence. We must find a better way forward. May Charlie Kirk have a full and quick recovery.”