Yesterday, just hours before the district attorney of Utah County formally announced the charges against Charlie Kirk’s assassin — and before he ran through some new evidence that authorities had collected — a left-wing journalist named Ken Klippenstein published an exclusive article on his Substack, which happens to be one of the most popular political Substacks in the country.
To much fanfare, Klippenstein reported that he had obtained private messages from people who knew the shooter, on the day that Charlie Kirk was killed. These messages were uploaded to a private server on Discord, which is a communications service that’s popular among young people, particularly young people who play video games.
Here’s one of the screenshots that Klippenstein provided in his article:
At 3:17 PM on September 10, someone wrote: “Charlie Kirk got shot.” Then, around 30 minutes later, someone writes “Dead.” Roughly an hour after that, someone else writes: “I just saw the video. Rip I guess. Bro didn’t deserve to go out like that. Sad.”
And then, according to this screenshot, the messages stop there. No one says anything at all until late the next day, on September 11, at 8:57 PM. And that message comes directly from the shooter. He says he’s sorry, and tells his friends that he’s going to turn himself in.
Then, on September 12, this message was posted in the Discord server.
It reads, “Hey everyone, if you have not seen the news yet, Tyler’s post is true. He was taken into custody earlier today for the shooting of Charlie Kirk … While Charlie Kirk’s politics were not acceptable to some, I ask that we all say a prayer for him and his family during these confusing times.”
The rest of the article contains quotes from one of the shooter’s friends, claiming he was “generally apolitical.” And then Klippenstein offers this conclusion.
Trump and company portray the alleged Utah shooter as left-wing and liberals portray him as right-wing. [But] the federal conclusion will inevitably be that he was a so-called Nihilist Violent Extremist (NVE).
To recap: Some members of the shooter’s Discord group shared a small number of screenshots with a popular left-wing Substack author. The screenshots show that the community was mostly focused on video games, and wasn’t celebrating Kirk’s death in the slightest. The author publishes those screenshots, and presents them as proof that the shooter wasn’t actually left-wing. Supposedly, he was just nihilistic and angry at the world.
Very transparently, the intent of this article was to deflect any suspicion from Discord, and the people the shooter was interacting with on the platform. Presumably, that’s why the shooter’s friends gave these screenshots to Ken Klippenstein. But in truth, the screenshots raise far more questions than they answer.
After Charlie is shot, according to this screenshot, there’s a grand total of 5 messages on this Discord server — written by two people — about the assassination. None of them are incriminating or even controversial. Those messages stop by 5 PM. The entire evening of September 10, and most of September 11 until 9 PM, no one says anything at all. And then, out of nowhere, the shooter confesses. He basically tells an empty room, which appears to be uninterested in the Kirk assassination, that he did it.
This is not evidence, as Ken claimed, that the shooter had no political motivations, and wasn’t operating as part of a coordinated terror plot. It doesn’t exonerate the shooter’s acquaintances in any way. It’s actually very odd, as far as evidence goes. It suggests that some messages from this Discord server may have been deleted or redacted before the screenshots were sent to Ken Klippenstein. Or it suggests that they were communicating through a different channel in the interim between the last message from the group and the out-of-nowhere confession from the killer. And it supports the conclusion that, for one reason or another, some of the influential left-wing voices in this country — as well as close associates of the assassin — are desperate to hide the shooter’s political motivation. And in the process, they’re getting very sloppy.
WATCH: The Matt Walsh Show
I say that because Ken Klippenstein wasn’t the only prominent Leftist on Substack to clumsily push a narrative like this.
Heather Cox Richardson, who I’m told is the single most popular political commentator on Substack, wrote that Kirk’s assassin had “embraced the far right.” She said that conservative commentators had created a “fictional world” to argue otherwise.
To restate what’s happening here: Some of the most influential voices on the Left — not Reddit trolls, not bots on Twitter, but actual people with large audiences — are going out of their way to lie about the murder of Charlie Kirk. And it’s not just on Substack either.
Here’s Jimmy Kimmel’s show from the other day:
Jimmy Kimmel claims “We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it” and “This is not how an adult… pic.twitter.com/KMhnskaYWD
— Alex Christy (@alexchristy17) September 16, 2025
Credit: @alexchristy17/X.com
Think about how little this statement makes sense: “We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them.”
Charlie was a leader — maybe the single most important leader, after Trump — of the MAGA movement. And now Kimmel is implying that MAGA killed Charlie. The only way that Kimmel’s line could possibly make any sense, whatsoever, is if you have no idea who Charlie was. You have to be ignorant to a chronic degree. Either that, or you have to be a committed partisan — someone who genuinely does not care about the truth. And as we’re learning, that’s a very good descriptor for many leftists in this country. And certainly Jimmy Kimmel’s entire audience.
As we discussed last week, there was never any evidence supporting the theory that the shooter was a conservative (or an “apolitical nihilist” or whatever). And yesterday, when the Utah County DA held a press conference outlining additional evidence that’s been uncovered in the investigation, that theory — as flimsy and unsupported as it was — fell apart in its entirety. Watch:
JUST IN: Tyler Robinson’s mother expressed concern that her son had become left-leaning, pro-gay, and pro-trans in the last year.
Utah County DA Jeff Gray also confirmed the etched inscriptions on the bullet casings.
“Robinson’s mother expressed concern to her husband that the… pic.twitter.com/4JZEN9dzmB
— Collin Rugg (@CollinRugg) September 16, 2025
Credit: @CollinRugg/X.com
Before we continue with the press conference, I need to say something about the DA’s choice of words here. Public officials should not legitimize, for any reason, the idea that someone can “transition” between the two genders. This roommate wasn’t in the process of becoming a woman, because it’s not possible for a man to become a woman. We’re talking about a gay guy who wore furry costumes and wrote emo posts on Reddit about how he hated injecting himself with cross-sex hormones. He was destroying his life, at a very young age, in service of a lie. When public officials use terms like “transition genders,” they’re saying all of this behavior is legitimate. They’re giving “gender transition” the stamp of approval from the Utah district attorney’s office. But it’s not legitimate. It’s both highly disturbing and unnatural. And if we want to eradicate transgender extremism in this country, and prevent more assassinations like this, then we have to drop the pretense that these barbaric “gender-affirming” procedures have any claim to legitimacy whatsoever. There’s no excuse for anyone in a position of authority to say otherwise.
Getting back to the substance of the press conference — the DA says that, over the last year or so, the shooter became more political, leaned more to the Left, and became preoccupied with transgenderism and gay rights — to the point that he began dating his roommate who was “transitioning” to another gender. That’s according to the shooter’s mother, who’s obviously going to be a reliable source. And later on, in communications with his roommate after the shooting, the shooter explicitly stated that he had been motivated by Charlie’s political statements. Watch:
JUST IN: Tyler Robinson’s mother expressed concern that her son had become left-leaning, pro-gay, and pro-trans in the last year.
Utah County DA Jeff Gray also confirmed the etched inscriptions on the bullet casings.
“Robinson’s mother expressed concern to her husband that the… pic.twitter.com/4JZEN9dzmB
— Collin Rugg (@CollinRugg) September 16, 2025
Credit: @CollinRugg/X.com
This is where — once again — it’s reasonable to debate the narrative we’re being told, and the facts as they appear. Let’s look at the messages between the trans-identifying roommate and the shooter. What happened is that, after the shooting, the shooter texted his furry roommate that he needed to read a note that the shooter had placed underneath his keyboard. Then, when the roommate reads the note — which confesses that he shot Charlie Kirk — the roommate says, “What?? You’re joking, right?”
In response, the shooter writes, “I am still ok my love, but am stuck in Orem for a little while longer yet. Shouldn’t be long until I can come home, but I gotta grab my rifle still. To be honest I had hoped to keep this secret till I die of old age. I am sorry to involve you.”
The response from the furry gay roommate is, “You weren’t the one who did it right???” Answer: ” I am, I’m sorry. “
Already, there’s something off here. They’re not talking like young people in their early 20s. There are no emojis or shorthand or anything. Instead, the shooter is talking like a medieval knight who’s late to dinner at Camelot or something. “My love, I’m stuck here for a little while longer yet?” Is this how people speak to each other in hedonistic homosexual Reddit relationships?
Then he casually mentions the rifle, giving the roommate the opportunity to make it clear that he knew nothing about the assassination. “Why did I do it? I had enough of his hatred. Some hate can’t be negotiated out. … “How long have you been planning this? .. A bit over a week, I believe. … I’m wishing I had circled back and grabbed [the rifle] as soon as I got to my vehicle.”
First of all, no one refers to their car as “my vehicle.” Again, that’s not how normal human beings interact with one another. You would say “as soon as I got back to my car,” not “my vehicle.”
But more importantly — imagine your roommate (and gay lover) has just admitted that he’s committed a gruesome assassination. The first question you’d ask probably wouldn’t be, “Oh really, how long have you been planning that? It couldn’t possibly be long enough for me to notice, right?”
Instead, you’d probably respond, immediately, with shock and horror. And then you’d tell him to turn himself in, while calling the police yourself. You’d be far too panicked, and far too confused, to do much more than that.
But that’s not what happened here. As far as we know, this roommate didn’t contact law enforcement — even though a murderer was about to head back to his apartment. Instead, he simply stopped responding to the shooter, who proceeded to make a series of additional statements that incriminated him — and him alone. “If I am able to grab my rifle unseen, I will have left no evidence …I’m worried what my old man would do if I didn’t bring back grandpa’s rifle. … I don’t know if it had a serial number, but it wouldn’t trace to me. I worry about prints. … I had to leave it in a bush where I changed outfits. … Remember how I was engraving bullets? The messages are mostly a big meme.”
This is a supposedly intelligent individual who received a scholarship to a state university in Utah because of his near-perfect grades and test scores. And he appears to be completely unaware that security cameras exist. He also doesn’t seem to realize how easy it would be to trace the rifle directly to him, if the authorities recovered it. He also doesn’t seem to consider the risks involved in putting a confession into writing, using text messages that can easily be obtained by law enforcement. We’re supposed to believe that neither of these guys realized that the FBI can obtain your text messages even if you delete them, and it will take them about 45 seconds to do so. Instead, he’s casually suggesting that he’s going to get away with the single most high-profile political assassination in a generation — and that his biggest concern is explaining the missing rifle to his father. He says he had intended to take the secret to the grave with him, but instead, he decided to confess to his roommate within a few minutes.
This is either extraordinary stupidity — which is written in a very stilted and unnatural fashion — or it’s a pre-planned effort to absolve the roommate (and others) of any responsibility. Those are the two options here. And you’re not crazy if you’re leaning towards the latter option. Even if you accept these texts as completely honest and above-board, you still have to explain this line.
“Remember how I was engraving bullets? The messages are mostly a big meme.”
That’s a pretty big red flag, as far as red flags go. After all, it’s not every day that you come across your roommate engraving bullets with any messages whatsoever — much less messages like “Hey fascist, catch.” You don’t engrave bullets to go hunting. You don’t engrave bullets when you’re going to the range. You don’t engrave bullets you might use for self-defense, either. There would be no point. On the other hand, if you want to send a message after you commit a terrorist attack, it makes perfect sense to engrave bullets. So why didn’t this trans-identifying roommate ask about any of this when he saw his gay lover carving messages into ammunition? How did he react, if he reacted at all?
Those are questions that federal investigators have to answer. Every indication we have right now — whether it’s coming from these ridiculous Substack articles, or the shooter himself — is that a cover-up is underway. The official story doesn’t make any sense. We’re led to believe, as hundreds of thousands of Leftists openly celebrated the murder of a conservative political figure — something that conservatives haven’t done in the modern history of this country — that somehow, all of the people close to the shooter were horrified by what he had done. The Discord server was mortified. The furry roommate was stunned. That’s what they’re telling us. We’re supposed to believe that he was radicalized into left-wing trans extremism, and began plotting the most high-profile political assassination of the century, and did all of this without his trans boyfriend catching wind of it — even though the boyfriend literally saw him engraving messages into his bullets.
From a rational perspective, the propaganda isn’t convincing. At this point, any honest person understands that Charlie Kirk’s assassination was an act of left-wing LGBT terrorism, and that we’re being lied to. And to be perfectly clear, again, I have absolutely no doubt that this was left-wing terrorism. The “conspiracy” — if there is one — is among the other left-wing militants who potentially plotted the attack, or knew about it, and then staged these messages and communications after the fact to absolve themselves. That’s the conspiracy — a conspiracy among left-wing terrorists — that I find very plausible, and must be investigated.
Meanwhile, the narrative machine is adapting. They’re moving away from specific factual claims, and entering the realm of perverse and deranged attempts at emotional manipulation. Here’s ABC’s Matt Gutman, for example:
DISGUSTING: ABC’s Matt Gutman says he’s not sure “if we have seen an alleged murder with such specific text messages” that were “very touching, in a way, that I think many of us didn’t expect — a very intimate portrait into this relationship between the suspect’s roommate and the… pic.twitter.com/ulPcxoOwM3
— Curtis Houck (@CurtisHouck) September 16, 2025
Credit: @CurtisHouck/ABC/X.com
He’s genuinely moved by these text messages between the cross-dressing furry roommate and the murderer who just executed a leading conservative figure in front of thousands of students, including children. He’s acting like it’s a classic love story, a tale as old as time. As the assassin discussed hiding incriminating evidence, and demonstrated precisely zero remorse or sympathy for the man he had just murdered, ABC News reporter Matt Gutman was “touched.” He was moved by the “duality” of the messages.
Of course, there’s no “duality” here at all. These messages are evil. Whether you take them at face value or not, they reflect an ideology of hedonism that is fundamentally incompatible with Christianity — and that, indeed, is bent on the destruction of Christianity. The shooter and his furry boyfriend did not shack up to glorify God. They didn’t shack up to bring any joy or new life into the world. They shacked up in order to commiserate, to hate, and to bring others down to the level of their miserable, pathetic existence. And that’s exactly what they did. That’s why one member of this pair — at least one member — just extinguished one of the leading Christian voices in the entire world.
But at ABC — the same network where Jimmy Kimmel works, incidentally — they’re not horrified by any of this. They find it thrilling. They can’t get enough of it. That’s why, ten minutes after that segment aired, the same reporter doubled down. And in some ways, this segment is even worse than the first one. Watch:
DISGUSTING: ABC’s Matt Gutman says he’s not sure “if we have seen an alleged murder with such specific text messages” that were “very touching, in a way, that I think many of us didn’t expect — a very intimate portrait into this relationship between the suspect’s roommate and the… pic.twitter.com/ulPcxoOwM3
— Curtis Houck (@CurtisHouck) September 16, 2025
Credit: @CurtisHouck/ABC/X.com
After his first report, no producer got in his ear and told him to knock it off. No one at ABC had any issue with what he said. So he said it again, with even more emphasis this time. He’s happy to wax poetic about a murderer’s standardized test scores, and his “touching” conversations, right after he shot Charlie Kirk to death.
All of these people need to be taken off the air — Jimmy Kimmel, Matt Gutman, the whole network. It’s irredeemable. And that’s not just because of their response to the murder of Charlie, although by itself, that would be more than enough. It’s because — as everyone can now see — corporate outlets like ABC go out of their way to hide the truth about transgenderism and the violence that it unleashes on America every day. They exist to hide the truth. Here’s just one example of a story they buried. This is from about a month before Charlie’s assassination. Watch:
Just one month before Charlie Kirk’s assassination, a young cross-dressing man in Utah requested the death penalty for himself after confessing to murdering both his parents and attempting to murder his brother. This story received little media interest pic.twitter.com/jd4EQ0xJRy
— ripx4nutmeg (@ripx4nutmeg) September 16, 2025
Credit: @ripx4nutmeg/X.com
Did you hear about this story? Probably not. No one did. I only saw it because a random X account posted this footage. A cross-dresser in Utah was supposedly “transitioning” from male to female. He decides to shoot both of his parents to death. After being arrested, he shows no remorse whatsoever. And then, when the state announces that it won’t pursue the death penalty, he files a motion requesting that the state change its mind. This demon actually *wants* to be put to death.
That’s an unusual motion, to say the least. It’s the kind of thing that, in a sane society, might get some coverage. But no one talked about this case. Jimmy Kimmel and Matt Gutman certainly didn’t talk about it. And we all know why. The *vast majority* of trans violence goes unreported. Unless trans-identifying individuals cause mass casualties at schools, churches, or conservative events — which they’re doing with increasing frequency, as you’ve probably noticed — then no one hears about the murders they’re committing against family members, or other individuals they know personally. This is an epidemic of violence that’s being hidden, deliberately.
The Trump administration has the opportunity, right now, to dismantle this threat. The entire industry of transgenderism must be outlawed. No healthy individual should ever be injected with cross-sex hormones, much less mutilated, ever again. And the terror cells that openly advocate for murder on platforms like Reddit, Bluesky, and Discord must be shut down, and hauled to prison. That’s how you prevent these militants from coordinating, and finding “affirmation” in their delusions. That’s how you prevent them from killing any more of us.
One of the many things Charlie accomplished, better than anyone else, was to have the kind of discussions that aren’t allowed on major television networks or social media platforms. So I’m going to end with this. It’s a clip from one of Charlie’s recent campus debates, about four months ago. A sociology professor walks up to the microphone. He asks Charlie what Donald Trump is doing to improve the lives of students. Here’s how Charlie responded:
You can tell from the applause that, by and large, young people want to hear exactly what Charlie is saying. They want an administration that will make housing more affordable. They want an administration that will stand up to China and BlackRock, and the big institutional buyers of suburban homes. They want cheaper gas, so their commute is more manageable. These are all proposals that, for the typical Leftist, would seem to align precisely with their agenda. They’re certainly not anything like what you’d hear from Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan, or George Bush back in the day. What Charlie is saying is more populist than anything else. “Bernie Bros” would endorse every word of it. As you saw in that footage, even the sociology professor was on board with what Charlie was saying.
Maybe that explains why ABC, and many other corporate networks, have decided to defame Charlie in death. Maybe that’s why they’re deliberately inciting LGBT terrorism, and celebrating it when it happens. Charlie actually believed in free expression, and advancing the interests of people who had no voice. That’s why he spent so much time on college campuses, listening to random college students recite their orthodoxy, and debating them with respect and patience in every single case. He didn’t have to do that. He had many more important people he could’ve talked to. He could’ve spent his whole career speaking to millionaires and billionaires. But he didn’t. Unlike Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren or Adam Schiff, he actually cared what no-name 18-year-olds had to say, because he recognized their importance not simply as voters, but also as human beings with inherent value. That’s why he appeared in public so often, in wide open venues. And it’s why he was murdered.
It’s been a week since that day. The official narrative that the media and leftist mouthpieces are trying to push remains incoherent. The text messages don’t make sense. Some of the major news networks have decided to glorify the killers. Many Leftists are openly celebrating Charlie’s death. This is not sustainable. And it’s not tolerable. The administration must demonstrate clear and discrete progress in dismantling left-wing terror organizations, starting with the cult of transgenderism, and it needs to do so immediately. The opportunity is there. If the last 24 hours have made anything clear, it’s that these people are panicking. They’re desperately trying to come up with some new defense or distraction, however implausible it may be. They know the hammer is coming down. Now it’s time to deliver the blow they’re expecting, and the one they deserve.
Continue reading this exclusive article and join the conversation, plus watch free videos on DW+
Already a member?