The federal agent who fatally shot Renee Nicole Good in Minneapolis last week suffered internal bleeding to his torso when he was struck by her vehicle, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Assistant Secretary Tricia McLaughlin confirmed to Fox News on Wednesday.
The extent of the bleeding to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agent Jonathan Ross was not immediately clear.
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem had previously said the agent was treated at a hospital following the incident on Jan. 7 before being released later that same day.
The health update comes after Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey previously downplayed the agent’s injuries.
MINNEAPOLIS MAYOR FREY REFUSES TO WALK BACK ‘GET THE F--- OUT’ MESSAGE TO ICE
"The ICE agent walked away with a hip injury that he might as well have gotten from closing a refrigerator door with his hips," he told reporters Friday. "Give me a break. No, he was not ran over. He walked out of there with a hop in his step."
Cellphone videos of the encounter have prompted a mix of reactions from officials and lawmakers.
Federal officials have said that when Good pulled forward in her vehicle toward the ICE officer, he acted in self-defense and described the driver’s actions as "an act of domestic terrorism." Authorities have also said that Good had been following and harassing federal officers earlier that day.
"Many of you have been told this law enforcement officer wasn’t hit by a car, wasn’t being harassed, and murdered an innocent woman," Vice President JD Vance said Friday in a post on X. "The reality is that his life was endangered and he fired in self defense."
NEW VIDEO SHOWS MINUTES LEADING UP TO DEADLY MINNEAPOLIS ICE SHOOTING
Meanwhile, Frey called any self-defense argument "garbage."
Other Democrats and some local residents, however, have condemned the shooting as a murder and called for Ross' prosecution.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
This is a developing news story; check back for updates.
Fox News' Jamie Vera contributed to this report.