UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione charged, family breaks silence
Luigi Mangione, the former Ivy League student arrested and charged in Pennsylvania on Monday in connection to the apparent assassination of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York City last week, likely won't be extradited for several days.
Coverage for this event has ended.
NYPD chief of detectives says ‘sense of relief’ that Luigi Mangione was captured following manhunt
The New York Police Department Chief of Detective Joseph Kenny said that there is a "sense of relief" following the apprehension of Luigi Mangione.
Mangione, an Ivy League-bred murder suspect, led law enforcement on a five-day manhunt until his apprehension and arrested in Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Kenny told WABC-TV that the relief came from his detectives and that the danger “had been mitigated.”
“Some of these detectives had not been home since Wednesday morning working on this case," he said. "So it was a sense of relief not only that the danger had been mitigated, that he had been apprehended, but it was a sense of relief from my detectives that they could finally catch a break.”
Luigi Mangione is fighting extradition to New York following arrest in Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania McDonald's where Mangione was arrested slammed with negative Yelp reviews
The McDonald's in Altoona, Pennsylvania, where alleged UnitedHealthcare CEO killer Luigi Mangione was arrested, has been bombarded with negative reviews online following his capture, continuing a strange show of support for the accused murderer.
Dozens of negative reviews have been posted on the establishment's Yelp page within the past two days, most coming after Mangione was arrested on Monday.
He was arrested, initially on unrelated charges, after a McDonald's employee and customer called police because they thought he looked like the person wanted in the New York City shooting death of Brian Thompson.
Many of the reviews mention the restaurant having "rats," referring to snitches, and say they recommend avoiding the place at all costs.
"As a vegan, I give all McDonald's restaurants in the US as low a rating as possible but this particular location serves up some extra rotten meat with a side of snitching," one person wrote.
Another said, "Full of bootlickers and rats. McSnitches get McStitches, as one says. I hope you regret all your decisions."
Contributing to the backlash, another person wrote, "How could you snitch on the guy standing up for the people, to protect the corporate interests that kill us."
Elon Musk offers solution to CEO killer suspect's condemnation of US healthcare
Elon Musk offered a solution early Wednesday morning to a claim outlined in the manifesto of alleged UnitedHealthcare CEO killer Luigi Mangione after an X user posted a snippet of the document, criticizing the statement.
In the manifesto, Mangione said the "US has the #1 most expensive healthcare system in the world, yet we rank roughly #42 in life expectancy."
Musk responded to that by saying "super low cost" GLP inhibitors, a medication that treats Type 2 Diabetes and obesity, would improve American healthcare more than anything.
"Nothing would do more to improve the health, lifespan and quality of life for Americans than making GLP inhibitors super low cost to the public," Musk wrote on X. "Nothing else is even close."
Luigi Mangione's defense attorney says people have offered to pay legal bills
Thomas Dickey, the defense attorney for UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione, said people have contacted his office and offered to pay the accused killer's legal bills.
During a Tuesday night appearance on CNN's "The Source with Kaitlin Collins," Dickey said people have reached out through email offering to help pay Mangione's legal bills.
"I have not seen them personally, but my understanding from my staff is people are doing that," Dickey said.
Collins then asked Dickey why he thinks people are making that offer, to which he said he believes it has to do with free speech.
"Maybe these people were exercising their right to free speech and they're saying that's the way they're supporting my client," Dickey said.
Iowa police force sharing name with Pennsylvania agency that arrested Mangione mistakenly celebrated
Police in Altoona, Iowa, redirected those following the manhunt for the UnitedHealthcare CEO killer to the Pennsylvania agency who arrested suspect Luigi Mangione after receiving tags on social media about the capture.
The department said many social media users were tagging them in posts celebrating, and even criticizing, the Monday arrest of Mangione at an Altoona, Pennsylvania, McDonald's.
In a Facebook post, the Iowa department said, in part, "thanks to our sister-city-name, Altoona Police Department – Altoona, PA, for their quick response to the McDonald's – also not in IOWA - to make the arrest."
The department said while it appreciates the support, it is being directed at the wrong police force.
"So, this is Altoona IOWA Police Department. We enjoy reading the tags and comments intended for PA (some of them are not so Iowa nice), but they go unread by the APD - PA, just by us Midwesterners," the post read.
The Iowa agency wrapped up the post by thanking the Altoona, Pennsylvania, agency for capturing "a suspected killer" and said they'll treat the team to a McDonald's ice cream cone if they're ever in town.
Top NYPD Official shares how agency is lasered in on stopping ‘copy-cat activity'
A top NYPD official shared that the agency has lasered in on halting “copy-cat activity” following the shooting of the UnitedHealthcare CEO.
The New York Police Department's Deputy Commissioner of Intelligence & Counterterrorism Rebecca Weiner told WABC-TV that the agency is working to get ahead of any copy-cats.
“Whenever an incident of this high prominence takes place, our work is to get ahead of any residence, in particular any copy-cat activity that it may inspire,” he said.
Weiner said that she believes that people are intrigued by this shooting because of the suspect's twist of fate.
“That extraordinary shift in fate, from all the background that led him to where he is today, is what has the world so intrigued by this incident," she said.
Luigi Mangione, the former Ivy League student, was arrested and charged in Pennsylvania on Monday in connection to the apparent assassination of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York City last week.
Ivy League grad Luigi Mangione's manifesto lends insight into disdain of healthcare industry
Fox News obtained the police report that detailed the manifesto that Luigi Mangione penned prior to allegedly shooting United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
The three-page manifesto attacked the health care system as well as attacking corporate greed.
The Ivy League computer scientist graduate wrote that he went after the 50-year-old CEO at the healthcare conference because of the public nature of the event.
Luigi Mangione's former roommate grapples with suspected killer's actions: ‘Two different people'
Luigi Mangione's former roommate said that the suspected killer's actions were "incompatible" with the person he knew, saying that it was like “two completely different human beings.”
R.J. Martin, the former roommate of Mangione, discussed on Fox News' Jesse Watters' Primetime his time with the Ivy League graduate turned suspected killer of United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson, saying that the pair were close friends and shared common pastimes together.
“It feels strange because he was a great friend and I considered him a close friend," he said. “And that someone who would assassinate somebody is completely incompatible with the person that I lived with, the person I cooked meals with, the person that was part of book club and other activities with.”
“It's like two completely different human beings,” he said.
Martin said that, to his knowledge, Mangione did not do drugs.
Luigi Mangione complained about back surgery before slaying
Luigi Mangione, the suspect charged in the ambush shooting death of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, had struggled with back pain and the fallout from a spinal surgery, according to reports.
Luigi Mangione, 26, told former roommates that he suffered from chronic back pain and a pinched nerve, according to CivilBeat, a Honolulu-based publication.
Mangione lived there for at least six months in 2022, according to former roommate RJ Martin, who told the outlet that Mangione's lower back problems affected him for years due to misaligned vertebrae that could sometimes pinch his spinal cord.
Mangione told his roommate he'd gotten surgery after moving out of the Surfbreak co-op where they lived together, then "he went radio silent."
Fox News Digital's Michael Ruiz contributed to this report.
Brian Thompson’s neighbors open up about UnitedHealthcare CEO’s brutal killing: ‘Just shock’
The neighbors of Brian Thompson’s family spoke with Fox News Digital on Tuesday, expressing shock and dismay nearly a week after the UnitedHealthcare CEO’s Dec. 4 murder.
Speaking from their houses in Maple Grove, Minnesota, the locals told Fox News Digital that the murder was tragic and expressed contempt for the suspect. Some residents of the wealthy, tight-knit community declined to comment on the incident, citing concern for the victim’s family.
One resident, who asked to stay anonymous, described the shooting as “definitely a bad thing.” The woman went on to compare Thompson’s assassination to chaos at the Southern border, and expressed that law and order must be respected.
Another woman told Fox News Digital that she heard about the shooting but had no idea the Thompsons lived so close to her.
“Oh my gosh. I had no idea that was so close to home,” the resident, who preferred to remain anonymous, said. “Honestly, my immediate reaction is just shock. I kind of did notice a little more police activity … but I thought that was a little weird. I did not pick up on that.”
The local expressed sympathy for Thompson’s sons and said: “I’m just shocked, really.”
Pennsylvania attorney said he would ‘consider’ representing Luigi Mangione in New York
The Pennsylvania attorney for UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione said he would "possibly' represent his client in New York.
When asked by reporters if he would be willing to represent Mangione in New York, the suspect's attorney, Thomas Dickey, said that it could be a “possibility.”
“If that happens, then that could be a possibility,” Dickey said on Monday, Dec. 10 in a press conference.
Dickey, who said he had 41 years of criminal defense experience, said that he is not barred in New York, but could be admitted to practice law.
“You can get admitted because I've been doing this for 41 years,” he said. “I don't want to speculate about anything. If that opportunity presented itself… I certainly would consider it.”
According to the New York State Unified Court System, attorneys may be eligible for admission on motion if they have practiced law for five of the last seven years, if they are admitted to practice in at least one reciprocal U.S. jurisdiction, and if they graduated from an American Bar Association approved law school.
Luigi Mangione's defense attorney says he ‘made a strong bond’ with his client
Thomas Dickey, the attorney representing Luigi Mangione in Pennsylvania, said that he “made a strong bond” with his client.
“I'm pleased with our relationship,” Dickey told reporters in a press conference on Tuesday, Dec. 10.
“I think we've made a strong bond,” he said. “And I'm looking forward to, moving forward, helping him out.”
When asked what his first impressions of 26-year-old Mangione were, Dickey said that he focused on forming a bond with his client.
“I wasn't looking for impressions. What I was trying to do, was form a bond with my client,” he said. “I want him to trust me, and I want him to be confident that I'm here for him.”
“And I'm very pleased of how that went,” he said.
Luigi Mangione's defense attorney says ‘no evidence’ that client is shooter
Thomas Dickey, the attorney representing Luigi Mangione in Pennsylvania said that he has seen “no evidence” that his client is guilty of shooting United Healthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
“Listen, I haven't seen any evidence that says that he's the shooter,” Dickey told reporters on Tuesday, Dec. 10.
“So… I wasn't kidding around a couple things. If you're going to report something, report it accurately. And remember, and this is not just a small thing, it's fundamental, the concept of American justice is a presumption of innocence,” he said. “And until you're proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt.”
“And I've seen zero evidence at this point. And so I'm not even aware of what any charges are," he said.
Later in the press conference, Dickey reiterated that he had not seen "one scintilla, one speck, one drop" of evidence.
"It would take too long for me to get into all that," he said, speaking of the decision to not waive extradition. "We're testing a process. I haven't seen anything, I have not seen one scintilla, one speck, one drop of any evidence yet."
Mangione has been charged in Pennsylvania with one count of forging a document and criminally possessing a firearm, court documents show. He was charged in New York with second-degree murder.
He has pleaded not guilty to charges in Pennsylvania.
Luigi Mangione silent as he's walked out of courthouse
Luigi Mangione, the 26-year-old Ivy League grad accused of gunning down UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in cold blood on a New York City sidewalk, was silent as he was walked out of a Pennsylvania courthouse Tuesday afternoon.
Mangione will fight extradition to New York, but DA Alvin Bragg's office has vowed to get Mangione to NYC to face justice as fast as possible.
Mangione's exit from court was significantly less dramatic than his entrance, where he screamed and thrashed violently as officers attempted to control him.
"It's completely out of touch, and an insult to the intelligence of the American people and its lived experience," Mangione shouted, prompting his detail of about 10 officers to hurry him inside.
Luigi Mangione's defense attorney, DA speak to press after extradition hearing
The attorney representing Luigi Mangione, the suspect accused of shooting UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson on the morning of Dec. 4 in Manhattan, told reporters on Tuesday that he was retained by Mangione.
"We did not waive extradition and we're contesting extradition. We are going to fight this along the rules and with the constitutional protections that my client has," Mangione's attorney, Thomas Dickey, told reporters outside the Blair County Courthouse.
Mangione, 26, was arrested Monday morning at a McDonald's in Altoona, Pennsylvania, after an employee apparently recognized him with his mask on. When police apprehended the suspect, he had a laptop and a backpack containing a firearm and silencer, $8,000 in U.S. currency, $2,000 in foreign currency, a passport and a fake ID, Blair County District Attorney Peter Weeks, Esq., said during the extradition hearing Tuesday.
Weeks later told reporters during a press conference that he has been collaborating with New York City prosecutors and law enforcement regarding Mangione's extradition to Manhattan, where he is charged with second-degree murder.
"We're going to do what's necessary to get the governor's warrant and we're working with the New York City Police Department and the Manhattan DA's Office, and we're gonna get the defendant out there so they can prosecute him on their charges, so waiving [extradition] accelerates that process," Weeks said.
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said in a Tuesday statement that she is "deeply grateful to the men and women of law enforcement whose efforts to solve the horrific murder of Brian Thompson led to the arrest of a suspect in Pennsylvania."
"I am coordinating with the District Attorney's Office and will sign a request for a governor's warrant to ensure this individual is tried and held accountable," Hochul said. "Public safety is my top priority and I'll do everything in my power to keep the streets of New York safe."
Blair County Judge Dave Consiglio also denied bail for Mangione on Tuesday.
CEO slaying suspect's manifesto talked about intense pain from back injury: NYPD
Luigi Mangione possibly sustained a back injury last year, authorities said Tuesday, citing his alleged manifesto and social media activity.
NYPD Chief of Detectives Joseph Kenny said Mangione may have sustained the injury on July 4, 2023.
"He was posting an X-ray on his social media. Some of the writings that he had, he was discussing the difficulty of sustaining that injury," Kenny told “Your World with Neil Cavuto.” "So we're looking into whether or not the insurance industry either denied a claim from him or didn't help him out to the fullest extent.”
In the manifesto, Mangione mentioned UnitedHealthcare specifically, Kenny said.
The NYPD received more than 200 tips that investigators vetted, Kenny said.
“But not one of those tips named him,” he said.
White House condemns violence to combat corporate greed while addressing CEO's slaying
The White House called the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson “horrific,” while also condemning violence to fight “corporate greed.”
“Obviously, this is horrific. Violence to combat any sort of corporate greed is unacceptable,” White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters Tuesday.
Jean-Pierre offered condolences to Thompson's loved ones, but declined to comment on the investigation into his murder or the manifesto allegedly penned by suspect Luigi Mangione.
Mangione was 'shocked to see NYPD in Altoona:' police
CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione was "shocked" to see NYPD detectives in Pennsylvania after he was arrested in Altoona on Monday, Deputy Commissioner of Operations Kaz Daughtry told Fox News.
Daughtry told Martha MacCallum that when New York detectives walked into the interview room to speak with Mangione, he was "shocked to see that the NYPD in was down in Altoona, Pennsylvania."
"He could not believe that NYPD detectives were sitting in that room," he continued.
Daughtry said if you commit a crime in NYC, the NYPD will "go anywhere to bring you back to answer to the crimes in New York City."
Daughtry and NYPD Chief of Patrol John Chell also highlighted how police images released of Mangione were key to catching him following a days-long manhunt.
“We have video canvassing. We have ballistics. We have forensics. We have a cab. We have a hostel. These are monumental pieces of evidence,” Chell told Fox News.
Chell noted that “at the end of the day,” photos of the suspect made all the difference.
“The public saw something and said something and got involved,” he said.
Fox News Digital's Louis Casiano contributed to this report.
CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione will fight extradition to NY
Luigi Manginoe will fight extradition to New York City, where he faces a murder charge in the shooting death of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
"My client will not waive extradition today," his lawyer said.
Mangione was denied bail Monday. Mangione will stay at SCI Huntingdon in Pennsylvania until proper paperwork is filed.
Luigi Mangione outburst a ‘calculated move,’ former FBI investigator says
Luigi Mangione's outburst as he was being led by authorities into court Tuesday was possibly a “calculated move” ahead of proceedings when he may face a potential jury.
“I think it is probably a calculated move by him and we'll see how it all turns out,” Bill Daly, a former FBI investigator, told “America Reports.”
Daly said it could be a situation of Manginoe "posturing himself."
“He's going to be facing proceedings. He's going to be facing a potential jury. Is he kind of posturing himself,” he said. “Is he kind of putting forward his innocence in some way?”
Defense attorney tells Mangione 'don't say a word' during hearing
Luigi Mangione's attorney told him “don't say a word” during a Tuesday hearing in a Pennsylvania courtroom.
Mangione appeared in court where he indicated he will fight extradition to New York City. Wearing an orange jump suit and appearing unphased, Manginoe whispered back and forth with his attorney, Thomas Dickey, who sat next to him.
Prosecutors said the 26-year-old was found with $8,000 in U.S. cash, $2,000 in foreign currency, as well as multiple masks and a passport.
Dickey argued that his client has masks because some people “still have the COVID fear."
Mangione looked back at reporters several times and mumbled to himself.
Acquaintance calls Mangiones 'great family,' recalls memories with kids
An acquaintance of the family of murder suspect Luigi Mangione spoke highly of the Mangione family and expressed shock at Luigi's arrest for the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
"They are a great family, except I guess for one," said the family acquaintance, who asked not to be named. He told Fox News Digital that he used to give popsicles to their kids. He said he had never met Luigi.
Mangione is wanted in New York for charges including Murder in the Second Degree, Criminal Possession of a Weapon in the Second Degree and Criminal Possession of a Forged Instrument in the Second Degree.
An extradition filing obtained by Fox News says Mangione is being held without bail at The State Correctional Institution at Huntingdon following his arrest Monday in Altoona, Pa.
Police say Mangione had "written admissions" about the slaying of Thompson, who was chief of the largest health insurance company in the United States.
Thompson was killed by gunshot wound to the torso after an armed assailant shot him in broad daylight last week in New York City, prompting a six-day manhunt for the killer leading up to Mangione's arrest in Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Fox News Digital's Anders Hagstrom and Greg Norman contributed reporting
CEO murder suspect shouts as he arrives at court
Luigi Mangione was heard shouting as he arrived Tuesday for an extradition proceeding at the Blair County Courthouse in Pennsylvania.
Mangione could be heard yelling that something is "completely out of touch" and "an insult to the intelligence of the American people" as police forcibly led him into the facility.
Mangione is wanted in New York for charges including Murder in the Second Degree, Criminal Possession of a Weapon in the Second Degree and Criminal Possession of a Forged Instrument in the Second Degree.
He was arrested Monday in Altoona, Pa., after being spotted inside a McDonald's restaurant.
Slain UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson laid to rest in Minnesota
MAPLE GROVE, Minn. – Police provided security at Monday's funeral service for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, who was killed in a targeted shooting in New York City last week.
Over a dozen state troopers and about 100 cars, including two dozen black SUVs, were seen outside the Lord of Life Lutheran Church in Maple Grove, Minnesota, where services began in the early afternoon. A drone was flying overhead, and a sniper with a large gun was seen stationed on the roof of the church.
Despite the heavy security presence, the funeral was intimate, and no outsiders were allowed to attend. A source said that a security code was reportedly required to get in.
Thompson, 50, was shot from behind on the sidewalk outside a New York City Hilton hotel on Dec. 4 before a shareholder conference.
Luigi Mangione's yearbook writings revealed, listed as 'best at pick-up lines' by classmates
The UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect’s classmates at the private Gilman School in Baltimore once described him as being the “best at pick-up lines,” his yearbook reveals.
An image of Luigi Mangione’s profile obtained by SNWS shows that he entered the school in sixth grade and went by the aliases of “pepperoni,” “Squeej” and “30 degrees.”
Mangione, who described his Gilman experience as “illuminating,” thanked his mother and father for “dealing with me these past 18 years.”
“I’ll admit, no matter how much I hated it at the time, [you] sending me to Gilman was the best thing that’s ever happened to me. Love you,” Mangione wrote.
Another portion of the yearbook reportedly listed Mangione as the captain of the Gilman robotics team.
A former classmate told SWNS that Mangione was “nice to everyone” and a “very normal guy” during his time at the school, where he was valedictorian in 2016.
"He was a nice guy, a smart kid but kind of quiet," the classmate added. "He was into gaming, he played soccer -- there was nothing out of the ordinary.
"We would hang out with friends and did normal high school stuff," the classmate also said.
The former student told SNWS they later were in “complete shock” when they found out that Mangione had been arrested for the murder of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York City.
Luigi Mangione's first meal behind bars revealed
ALTOONA, Pa. – When Pennsylvania police arrested a former Ivy League computer scientist in connection with the New York City assassination of a health insurance CEO in New York City, he was shaking in his chair at an Altoona McDonald's, according to court documents.
By the time he had his first meal behind bars, a square slice of pizza that officers shared with him and others at the police station, he'd calmed down, a law enforcement source told Fox News Digital.
"While he was nervous and shaking during the arrest – when he was in the jail cell his demeanor was relatively calm," the source said. "He didn't appear angry or scared."
Luigi Mangione, 26, was arrested peacefully, according to authorities, but he declined to speak with investigators. As NYPD brass and Manhattan prosecutors were driving in at speeds above 80 mph from nearly 300 miles away, the local cops received donations of food and coffee from supporters around the country after the news broke. They shared some of it with the suspect.
"We pride ourselves on our hospitality, whether our guests are there willingly or not," the source said.
Altoona, Pennsylvania police department receiving threats after Mangione arrest
Police in Altoona, Pennsylvania have received threats against officers following the arrest of UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione on Tuesday.
An Altoona Police Department spokesman told Fox News Digital authorities are investigating all threats received against police officers and some members of the community.
"This is clearly a very polarized case," Deputy Chief Derek Swope said. "We have received some threats against our officers in building here. We've started investigating some threats against some citizens in our community. We're taking all those threats seriously and doing all we can with those."
Swope would not confirm if employees at the McDonald's where Mangione was apprehended had also received threats but did say all threats are under investigation.
He also said police have body camera footage of their interactions with the suspect before his arrest but are not releasing that video at this time.
Swope referred specific questions about the investigation to the NYPD.
Suspect faces extradition proceeding Wednesday
UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione is facing an extradition proceeding later today in Pennsylvania.
The hearing is expected to begin around 1:30 p.m. local time at the Blair County Courthouse.
Mangione is wanted in New York for charges including Murder in the Second Degree, Criminal Possession of a Weapon in the Second Degree and Criminal Possession of a Forged Instrument in the Second Degree.
An extradition filing obtained by Fox News says Mangione is being held without bail at The State Correctional Institution at Huntingdon following his arrest Monday in Altoona, Pa.
"The New York Police Department and the Manhattan District Attorney's Office is seeking the Defendant's extradition pursuant to this Warrant of Arrest," the filing says.
Fox News' David Hammelburg contributed to this report.
FIRST LOOK: Mugshot of CEO murder suspect revealed
Fox News Digital has obtained the mugshot of UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione, as well as a New York arrest warrant that says Mangione had “written admissions about the crime’ when he was arrested Monday in Pennsylvania.
“I was informed... that defendant presented a forged New Jersey Driver’s License with the name of Mark Rosario as his identification, which based on the number on it was the same identification defendant presented at the hostel, and that in defendant’s belongings, Patrolman Christy Wasser, Badge #250 found a semi-automatic pistol with what appears to be a 3D printed loaded receiver with a metal slide and silencer, and written admissions about the crime," a police detective wrote in the warrant.
In New York, Mangione is facing charges including Murder in the Second Degree, Criminal Possession of a Weapon in the Second Degree and Criminal Possession of a Forged Instrument in the Second Degree.
The warrant adds that "the cause of Mr. Thompson's death was determined to be a gunshot wound to the torso" and Mangione allegedly fired "several times" at Thompson, "causing him to collapse on the ground."
Mangione family member cancels political fundraiser, says he’s ‘heartbroken’ over CEO’s murder
Maryland State Delegate Nino Mangione, the cousin of UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione, announced Tuesday that he is canceling a political fundraiser.
“Because of the nature of this terrible situation involving my Cousin I do not believe it is appropriate to hold my fundraising event scheduled for this Thursday at Hayfields [Country Club]. I am going to postpone this event until later at a more appropriate time,” the Republican wrote on Facebook.
“I want to thank you for your thoughts, prayers, and support. My family and I are heartbroken and ask that you remember the family of Mr. Thompson in your prayers. Thank you,” he added.
First photo released of CEO murder suspect at McDonalds before arrest
Pennsylvania State Police released new photos that show for the first time murder suspect Luigi Mangione pictured inside the McDonald's where he was apprehended in Altoona, Penn.
Mangione is seen wearing a medical face mask and eating a what looks like a McDonald's hashbrown in the corner of the fast food chain.
"Law enforcement continues to seek the public’s help in gathering information on Luigi Mangione’s travel and recent whereabouts in Pennsylvania," PA State Police posted on X. "We ask anyone with information to call 1-800-4PA-TIPS or submit a tip online."
Rookie Altoona police officer Tyler Frye took Mangione into custody after an employee and a customer at a McDonald's in Altoona thought he looked like the suspect on a wanted poster and called authorities.
When officers approached Mangione, who was wearing a mask and a beanie and working on a laptop in the back of the restaurant, and asked him to remove his face covering, they recognized him as the suspect wanted for questioning in Thompson's murder.
During that encounter, he allegedly handed over a fake ID, gave a phony name, and "became quiet and started to shake" when asked if he'd recently been to New York.
He was also allegedly in possession of writings criticizing the healthcare industry and a ghost gun similar to the one believed to have been used to kill Thompson.
Altoona police initially took Mangione into custody on charges unrelated to Thompson's murder – possession of an unlicensed firearm, providing false identification to police and forgery.
Fox News Digital's Michael Ruiz contributed to this update.
NYPD official says releasing image of Mangione was the ‘key’ to tracking him down
NYPD Chief of Detectives Joseph Kenny said investigators releasing an image of Luigi Mangione was the “key" to tracking him down in Pennsylvania.
Kenny told ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Tuesday: “The key to this case was releasing that photograph that we were able to obtain ... once we released it to media we asked the public for help and we asked media to broadcast it nationwide and as you can see, obviously that picture reached Pennsylvania where you had an employee and a patron of the McDonald’s in Altoona recognize the subject.
“So if we hadn’t released that photograph in a timely manner, the investigation maybe would have went on a little longer,” Kenny added, referencing the surveillance photograph of Mangione’s face that was taken in New York City before the murder of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch added that “our detectives conducted an incredible camera canvass, tracking his movements throughout the city.”
“We had our scuba teams in the water looking for the gun, we had our helicopters overhead, it was just a real complete effort by the men and women of the New York City Police Department.”
Security spotted at funeral for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson
Security was spotted at a funeral in Minnesota for UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
State Police could be seen outside the Lord of Life Lutheran Church in Maple Grove where the event was ongoing Monday.
Thompson was shot and killed last Wednesday in New York City.
On Monday, suspect Luigi Mangione was taken into custody at a McDonald’s in Altoona, Pa.
McDonald's customer who spotted Luigi Mangione before his arrest speaks out
Larry, a McDonald’s customer who spotted UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione before his arrest Monday, told Fox News Digital that he thought his friend was kidding when he said that Mangione “looks like the shooter from New York.”
Larry says he and a group of friends go to McDonald’s daily and were inside one of the fast-food chain’s locations in Altoona when Mangione walked in.
“One of my friends -- and I thought he was kidding -- when the shooter... who they made the arrest on came in, he made a comment ‘Well, that looks like the shooter from New York’. But the group of us thought it was more of a joke and we were kidding about it. But then as it turned out, it was him,” Larry said.
He added that Mangione made an order at the McDonald’s and then went to the rear of the store.
“I passed him whenever I left, I left and went to church, [then] came back because I heard there was an arrest,” Larry also said.
Photo shows fake ID allegedly used by UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect
Police sources say that when Altoona Police Department officers asked murder suspect Luigi Mangione for identification at a McDonald's in Altoona, Penn., he handed over a fake ID.
Fox News Digital is told the fake ID is the same one the suspect used to check into a New York City hostel before the fatal shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson.
A photo provided by police shows a New Jersey ID card with the name Mark Rosario. But the ID card has Mangione's picture.
Police officials said the address listed on the fake ID does not exist.
Authorities apprehended Mangione on Monday after police officers in Pennsylvania recognized the murder suspect from pictures distributed by New York City police.
Mangione, the suspect in the shooting death of the UnitedHealthcare CEO, started shaking when police in Altoona, Pennsylvania approached him Monday at a McDonald's, court documents revealed.
He was wearing a blue medical mask and was looking at a silver laptop computer when officers approached him at the fast-food chain, court documents say.
Officers asked Mangione to pull down his mask and officers immediately recognized him as the suspect wanted for Thompson's murder in NYC. Officers had seen photos of the suspect from media sources, court documents say.
Mangione gave officers a fake ID with the name Mark Rosario - police ran the ID and determined it to be fake. Officers then asked Mangione why he lied.
He replied, "I clearly shouldn't have," according to court documents. Mangione was then placed into custody.
Fox News' Alexis McAdams and Sarah Rumpf-Whitten contributed to this update.
CEO killing suspect's friend in July: 'I haven't heard from you in months'
An apparent friend of UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione wrote to him on his X account in July that "I haven't heard from you in months.”
“Hey man I need you to call me. I don’t know if you are okay or just in a super isolated place and have no service,” the message read. “But I haven’t heard from you in months.”
“You made commitments to me for my wedding and if you can’t honor them I need to know so I can plan accordingly,” the post added, according to The Wall Street Journal.
“Hey, are you ok?” read another message posted on Oct. 30, the newspaper reported. “Nobody has heard from you in months, and apparently your family is looking for you.”
Fox News' Christina Coulter contributed to this report.
UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect had cell service-blocking Faraday bag
UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione had a Faraday bag that blocked cell phone service on him Monday when he was arrested in Pennsylvania.
When asked about the bag in court, Mangione said it “was just a waterproof bag.”
Mangione was arraigned in Blair County Court in Hollidaysburg. Prosecutors said he was carrying $10,000 in cash, including $2,000 in foreign currency, although Mangione disputed the amount.
"I don't know where that money came from. It must have been planted. I don't have that kind of cash,” he said.
Fox News' David Hammelburg and Christina Coulter contributed to this report.
Investigators will be doing ‘deep dive’ on whether Mangione had more targets: retired FBI agent
Retired FBI special agent Robin Dreeke told ‘Fox & Friends’ Tuesday that investigators will be doing a “deep dive” into whether UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione had more targets.
“The fact that he held onto all the IDs, he held onto this cash, he had the gun, one of the reasons why police were going and diving for evidence in that pond [in Central Park] was because usually criminals and murderers get rid of the evidence. He held onto it,” Dreeke said, describing some of the items allegedly found on Mangione Monday during his arrest at a McDonald’s in Altoona, Pa.
“Was he planning more things? And so that is what they are really going to be doing a deep dive on,” Dreeke continued.
“When we first saw the first images and the video of him shooting the CEO in cold blood, the fact that he recognized him so rapidly on that street, it says to me that he just wasn’t looking at a photo. He either did a deep dive on videos or saw him live before,” Dreeke also said. “And where did he get that information that he is going to be there, so were there other people involved?”
Luigi Mangione once lived in shared penthouse in Hawaii: report
UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione once lived in a shared penthouse inside a condo building in Hawaii, a report says.
Mangione’s friends say he first arrived in Hawaii around two years ago and is believed to have left during the second half of 2024, according to Hawaii News Now.
The website reports that for a time, Mangione lived in the “Surfbreak” co-working and co-living space located inside the Century Square condo building in Honolulu.
“Surfbreak HNL is the first co-living and co-working penthouse for remote workers in Hawaii,” reads a description of the shared penthouse on its website. “Our 40th floor floor-to-ceiling glass space offers panoramic views.... From city life to surf sesh and mountain heights. Stays are from two months to a year.”
Prices for rooms inside the penthouse currently start at $1,605 per month for a twin bedroom and up to $3,305 per month for a King Corner space.
Pennsylvania agents helped at Altoona arrest: attorney general
Agents from the Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office helped local law enforcement during the arrest of UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione.
“The Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General assisted on the scene to take Luigi Mangione into custody after an employee at a local McDonald’s called 911,” Pennsylvania Attorney General Michelle Henry wrote this morning on X.
“This apprehension was accomplished because of a strong collaboration between OAG Taskforce Agents and Altoona Police Department,” she added. “Thank you for your work to keep Pennsylvania safe.”
Complaint against UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect remains sealed
The criminal complaint in New York against UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione remains sealed, the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office says.
Prosecutors in New York City charged Mangione with murder late Monday night, according to online court records.
The 26-year-old was also charged with criminal possession of a weapon (loaded firearm), possession of a forged instrument and criminal possession of a weapon (firearm silencer) in the brazen Dec. 4 shooting death of Brian Thompson.
“The complaint itself remains sealed,” the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office told Fox News.
Fox News' Tamara Gitt and Elizabeth Pritchett contributed to this report.
Luigi Mangione's family could not locate him earlier this year: reports
UnitedHealthcare CEO murder suspect Luigi Mangione couldn’t be located by his family earlier this year, reports say.
On Nov. 18, his mother Kathleen reported him missing to the San Francisco Police Department, a police source told The San Francisco Standard.
The San Francisco Police Department did not immediately respond Tuesday morning to a request for comment by Fox News Digital.
Aaron Cranston, who was one of Mangione’s former classmates at the private Gilman School in Baltimore, also told The New York Times that he and his colleagues received a message earlier this year stating that Mangione’s family hadn’t been able to get in touch with him for several months following a back surgery.
At the time, Mangione’s family was trying to track him down, the newspaper added, citing Cranston.
Family of Luigi Mangione says they are ‘shocked and devastated’ by his arrest
The family of Luigi Mangione said they are “shocked and devastated ” by his arrest.
In a statement issued Monday night, Mangione's cousin, Maryland State Delegate Nino Mangione, said he would not be commenting on the matter. His family also said they would not comment on news reports of his arrest and the allegations against him.
“We only know what we have read in the media," the statement said. "Our family is shocked and devastated by Luigi’s arrest. We offer our prayers to the family of Brian Thompson and we ask people to pray for all involved. We are devastated by this news.”
Manifesto found on Mangione reportedly mentioned UnitedHealthcare, criticized insurance industry
The manifesto found on Luigi Mangione singled out UnitedHealthcare by name, according to the New York Times.
It also noted the size of the health insurance company and how much money it makes, a law enforcement official who reportedly saw the document told the newspaper.
There was also criticism of health-care companies, alleging the companies have placed profits over care.
“These parasites had it coming,” it reportedly said. “I do apologize for any strife and trauma, but it had to be done.”
Luigi Mangione arrested and charged in UnitedHealthcare CEO murder: What happens now?
Luigi Mangione, the former Ivy League student arrested and charged in Pennsylvania on Monday in connection to the apparent assassination of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson in New York City last week, likely won't be extradited for several days.
Mangione, 26, was detained at the Altoona Police Department in Pennsylvania after an area McDonald's manager recognized him around 9:15 a.m. Monday. Four fake IDs, a gun and silencer resembling those used in the shooting, and a manifesto denouncing the health insurance industry were found on his person.
Members of the FBI and NYPD, including New York Deputy Commissioner of Community Operations Kaz Daughtry, arrived at the station in the hours after Mangione was arrested. Members of the New York District Attorney's Office also arrived, Fox News Digital confirmed.
Mangione was charged with forgery, firearms not to be carried without a license, tampering with records or identification, possessing instruments of a crime and false identification to law enforcement authorities, according to a police criminal complaint.
Although his arrest was "peaceful," per Altoona police, Mangione did not speak to interrogators and was put in a holding cell.
"Suspect didn't say a word. He refused to talk," a law enforcement source told Fox News Digital.
Live Coverage begins here