More information has emerged about the woman shot by a federal immigration officer in Minneapolis Wednesday that gives a glimpse into the anti-ICE activism she apparently participated in.
Renee Nicole Good, 37, was identified by family who said she didn’t have any involvement with ant-ICE activities. The Trump administration identified her as a “domestic terrorist.”
Some local residents attending a vigil for Good, however, identified her as a “warrior” who participated in an “ICE watch” group to “document and resist” the agency, according to the New York Post.
Good first learned of the group through her 6-year-old son’s leftist charter school, which prides itself on “involving kids in political and social activism,” the outlet reported.
“She was a warrior. She died doing what was right,” a mother named Leesa, whose child attends the same school, told the New York Post.
Leesa went on to say that Good “was trained against these ICE agents” on “what to do, what not to do, it’s a very thorough training,” adding that the training included how “to listen to commands, to know your rights, to whistle when you see an ICE agent.”
County worker Kristin Peter, 30, said Good was on the same ICE Watch team as one of her coworkers. Peter said she herself was planning to go to one of the group’s meetings Thursday night.
“They were on the same team, they would eat meals together,” she told the New York Post.
“From my understanding, she was involved in social justice … we are a tight-knit community and a lot of parents are [activists],” former Southside gym teacher Rashad Rich, who resigned from the school last month, told the New York Post.
Good was killed after she appeared to be blocking a road ICE agents were trying to pass through. The officers appeared to order her to get out of her vehicle, before she put it in reverse and then in drive.
One video appeared to show the car make contact with an ICE officer who was standing in front before shots were fired.
The Trump administration says the ICE officer acted in self defense, but Democrats, like New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani, have classified his actions as “murder.”
The Department of Homeland Security blamed the “malicious rhetoric of sanctuary politicians” for a 1,300% increase in assaults, 3,200% surge in vehicle attacks, and an 8,000% increase in death threats against ICE, in a statement shared with The Daily Wire Thursday.
“I know she was doing the right thing. I watched the video plenty of times but I also know in my heart the woman she was, she was doing everything right,” Leesa said.
A federal investigation into the shooting is ongoing.