Far-right influencers and violent extremists are posting identifying details about people they view as celebrating or glorifying the murder of right-wing activist Charlie Kirk. The campaign has been swift and widespread and has already led to at least one person losing their job and others receiving death threats.
The people posting the identifying information include Chaya Raichik, who runs the hugely influential, hate-filled LibsofTikTok account on X, Trump-whisperer Laura Loomer, and former Proud Boy leader Enrique Tarrio.
A central hub of this activity is a website called Charlie’s Murderers, which was registered in the early evening on the day Kirk was shot and is revealing certain personal information, such as social media usernames and email addresses, of individuals the operators believe were celebrating the horrific murder.
One of the first names listed on the sites was Rachel Gilmore, an independent journalist at Bubble Pop Media who wrote on X that she was “terrified to think of how far-right fans of Kirk, aching for more violence, could very well turn this into an even more radicalizing moment. Will they now believe their fears have been proven right and feel they have a right to ‘retaliate,’ regardless of who actually was behind the initial shooting?”
As WIRED reported, this is exactly how much of the far right—along with Republican lawmakers including President Donald Trump—did respond to the news, even though no suspect had been arrested and no motive had been revealed.
For Gilmore, the impact of her inclusion on the website was instant and terrifying.
“This website has me genuinely afraid for my safety,” Gilmore tells WIRED. “I feel awful for anyone whose name is on it. It’s clear that the purpose of the website is to do exactly what the post that landed me on there warned Kirk’s supporters might do: retaliate.”
Gilmore has received multiple death and rape threats since the site went live on Wednesday evening. (WIRED reviewed screenshots of emails and direct messages Gilmore has received to verify the threats.) She has not reported the threats to the police yet, she says.
“I’ve gotten emails and DMs promising to find out where I live,” Gilmore says. “I have folks claiming my information is all over 4chan telling me in the same breath that they hope I get ‘raped and killed’ and telling me to ‘have fun walking the streets of’ my city, which they name.”
At the time of publication, two dozen people were listed on the site, with many entries including full names, employment details, location, and social media accounts. The site’s operators, who are anonymous, claim to have received “thousands” of submissions. “All of them will be reviewed and uploaded shortly,” a note on the website reads. “This is a permanent archive and will soon contain a search feature.”
“Most likely, we'd be happy to answer your questions,” the people controlling the website told WIRED in an email. Subsequent emails, though, went unanswered.
The website asks people to submit a potential target’s full name, location, and employer information, as well as screenshots of incriminating social media posts, via email. An About section on the website, added on Thursday morning, says: “This is not a doxxing website. This website is a lawful data aggregator of publicly-available information. It has been created for the purposes of public education.”
It continues: “We seek to collect and archive instances of individuals promoting or glorifying of political violence, much like archive.org or archive.is. We firmly denounce all political violence and criminal activity.”
| Got a Tip? |
|---|
| Do you know something we should know? We'd like to hear from you. Using a nonwork phone or computer, contact the reporter securely on Signal at davidgilbert.01. |
Many of the allegedly incriminating posts WIRED reviewed did not glorify or promote violence. “The entire atmosphere has been stoked by conservative media and amplified by MAGA bullshit,” reads one Facebook post highlighted by the site.
“And the world kept spinning,” another person listed on the site wrote in a Facebook comment, under a post about Kirk’s death.
Quinn Huddleston, another name listed on the site, told WIRED he has received “countless messages” since his name was published on the site, some urging him to take his own life. Huddleston also says that people have threatened his life, claiming to know where he lives. However, he points out that the information shared on the website was out of date and as a result the threats contained inaccurate information.
“I did not glorify anyone’s death,” says Huddleston. “I don’t believe political violence is the answer to anything on either side. They took a comment I made prior to [Kirk] even passing and now, as radicals usually do, spin it to work for their agenda, whatever that may be.”
A WIRED review of the social accounts linked to the people listed on the site revealed that the vast majority of them have been either deleted or set to private.
Many of the names listed on the site have already been shared on social media platforms by prominent figures seeking retribution.
“I will be spending my night making everyone I find online who celebrates his death Famous, so prepare to have your whole future professional aspirations ruined if you are sick enough to celebrate his death,” Loomer wrote on X hours after Kirk’s death. “I’m going to make you wish you never opened your mouth.”
Loomer followed through on her threat in at least one instance, targeting a woman in Arizona who she claimed worked at a kids’ club in a fitness center. Loomer posted a screenshot of the woman’s Instagram account where she wrote: “Today’s a good day y’all” under a news story about Kirk’s death.
“I hope this dumb bitch is fired,” Loomer wrote, alongside a video showing her calling the woman’s place of employment and speaking to her manager. “I can’t imagine somebody that sick celebrating the death of a young father, who has children who are never going to know their father, working at the kids’ club there,” Loomer said during the call. “I think it’s a risk to the safety of the children.”
The gym where Loomer claimed the woman worked did not respond to a request for comment. WIRED was unable to contact the woman in question, and her Instagram account appears to have been deleted.
Loomer did not respond to a request for comment.
While Loomer was hoping to get someone fired, it appears Raichik succeeded.
Shortly after she highlighted that the assistant dean at the office of Student Care and Conduct at Middle Tennessee State University wrote on her Facebook page that she had “zero sympathy” for Kirk, the woman was fired.
“An MTSU employee today offered inappropriate and callous comments on social media concerning the horrific and tragic murder of Charlie Kirk,” Sidney McPhee, the school’s president, said in a statement posted on the university’s website. “The comments by this employee, who worked in a position of trust directly with students, were inconsistent with our values and have undermined the university’s credibility and reputation with our students, faculty, staff and the community at large. This employee has been fired effective immediately.”
Another target of Raichik’s was a firefighter at the New Orleans Fire Department who has since deleted her Instagram account and Facebook page. The New Orleans Fire Department did not respond to a request for comment.
Raichik did not respond to a request for comment.
“The Patriot Oasis,” a far-right news account that spreads disinformation, also used its large following to direct threats and hate toward others online. As is typical in situations like this, the account shared inaccurate information about targeted individuals. In one case, the account highlighted a video posted to Instagram by a woman who said that she was “really glad Charlie Kirk got himself fucking shot.” This woman, the account said, worked at Larkin Community Hospital.
The hospital was forced to issue a statement clarifying that the woman had completed her residency there in 2018 but has not had any affiliation with the hospital since. Despite this, another far-right account suggested on Instagram that she had been fired.
The doctor in question did not respond to WIRED requests for comment and appears to have deleted her Instagram account.
Tarrio, who had his sentence for seditious conspiracy with regards to the January 6 Capitol riot pardoned by Trump earlier this year, targeted a member of staff at a school in Miami, claiming he posted a comment on Instagram that celebrated Kirk’s death. “He died. Oh well. He ironically promoted gun usage. Karma,” the person wrote according to a screenshot shared on X.
“YKWTD,” Tarrio posted on X in the early hours of Thursday morning, referring to the phrase “you know what to do.” The comment was shared alongside a screenshot of the address and phone number of the Miami Country Day School.
Neither the individual involved nor the school responded to WIRED’s request for comment about the threat. Tarrio tells WIRED he is not concerned about threats that people being targeted are receiving and claims he had succeeded in getting five people fired by Thursday afternoon. When asked for details about those people, Tarrio did not provide them.
The Proud Boys are focusing our efforts into these threats and celebrations,” Tarrio says. “We will not call for violence, but we will inform their employers of who they have on staff.”
Dozens of other accounts on X, many of which have hundreds of thousands of followers, were sharing personal details about other people they saw as celebrating Kirk’s murder.
“Someone could get killed or, if the harassment they’re receiving is anything like what I’ve gotten, even engage in self-harm,” Gilmore said. “It’s sick, it’s wrong, and it’s terrifying.”