Minneapolis ICE shooting: A minute-by-minute timeline of how Renee Nicole Good died
ABC News provides a frame-by-frame review of video of the incident.
It could all come down to 399 milliseconds.
That's the amount of time between the first two gunshots fired by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent in the deadly shooting of a U.S. citizen in Minneapolis Wednesday, according to an ABC News metadata analysis.
The circumstances surrounding 37-year-old Renee Nicole Good's death have ignited a national firestorm, with leaders of Minnesota's largest city, along with numerous lawmakers, condemning the ICE agents' actions, while federal officials say that the agents acted in self defense after Good tried to ram them with her car in an act of domestic terrorism.
Good, a Minneapolis mother of three, was in the driver's seat of her Honda Pilot in the middle of a residential street when an ICE agent opened fire.
According to an ABC News analysis of verified video, including new footage that emerged on Jan. 9, Good could be seen turning her car's steering wheel to the right, away from the ICE agent who shot her, just over one second before the first of three gunshots was fired.
ABC News' minute-by-minute, frame-by-frame review of video of the incident includes a close look of what happened before, during, and after the moments that led to Good's death.
Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2026
Federal law enforcement officers in Minneapolis were "doing an enforcement operation" Wednesday morning when their vehicle got stuck in the snow, Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said at a news conference Wednesday afternoon.
Noem says agents called for others to help remove the vehicle from the snow, when protesters arrived and were "preventing them from leaving the scene."
"They were returning back to headquarters, I believe, to start a new operation," Noem tells reporters, adding that they "had just completed one."
Local resident Lynette Reini-Grandell told ABC News that a number of neighbors were standing watch as students were being dropped off at nearby Richard E. Green Central Park Elementary School, due to reports of ICE activity in the neighborhood.
The Department of Homeland Security had previously announced an increase in immigration enforcement activity in the Minneapolis area.
9:35:05 a.m. (local time)
2 minutes before the shooting
Renee Nicole Good's Honda Pilot is stopped diagonally on Portland Avenue while at least four cars pass perpendicularly, according to video footage recorded by Reini-Grandell.
The passenger side front window is closed while the rear window is mostly open. Seconds later, at least three federal agents wearing masks are seen walking toward the Honda Pilot, as bystanders can be heard whistling and yelling at officers.
9:36:51 a.m.
22 seconds before the shooting
A woman who would later identify herself as Good's partner stands behind the Honda Pilot and appears to question a federal agent, according to video obtained by local attorney Daniel Suitor that was shared with ABC News. The woman and the agent appear to be holding up cellphones filming each other.
The Honda Pilot can be seen moving very slightly forward while the woman and agent are behind the car. The vehicle then stops.
This agent would subsequently move alongside the Honda Pilot's passenger side and position himself in the front of the car.
9:36:58 a.m.
15 seconds before the shooting
A Ford Explorer with California license plates that had been on the side of Portland Avenue can be seen on video pulling out onto the street. A different video shows Good's driver-side front window is open, and she appears to gesture for the Ford Explorer to pass in front of her Honda Pilot, which it does.
Good continues to wave her hand from left to right after the Ford passes as two other officers are seen pulling up in an unmarked Nissan Titan pickup truck with flashing red and blue lights. They stop in the middle of the street.
9:37:08 a.m.
5 seconds before the shooting
The two officers in the Nissan Titan are seen on video exiting their vehicle. They approach the Honda Pilot, ordering Good to "get out of the car." While they are approaching, the Honda Pilot is put in reverse. The officer who emerged from the driver's side of the Nissan Titan puts his left hand on the bottom of the Honda Pilot's driver-side front window and his right hand on the door handle, appearing to try to open the door. His hands remain in that position while the Honda Pilot backs up a few feet, with the front wheels of the car pointed to the left as the car backs up.
The federal agent who was walking behind the Honda Pilot then moves alongside the right of the car so he is standing to the front-left of the vehicle.
As the Honda Pilot then begins to move forward, the wheels begin to turn to the right, away from where the ICE agent is standing.
In new video taken by the agent who shot Good and obtained by ABC News on Jan. 9, Good can be seen turning her vehicle’s steering wheel to the right, away from the agent, just over one second before the first shot is fired.
9:37:13 a.m.
Gunfire erupts
The federal agent standing to the front-left of the vehicle pulls out his gun.
The moment of the shooting is captured in at least four videos verified by ABC News. Three eyewitness videos emerged on the day of the shooting. A fourth, taken by the officer who shot Good, was obtained by ABC News on Jan. 9.
With his right hand on his drawn firearm, the federal agent's left hand is still on his phone, with both pointed at the Honda Pilot. He fires the first shot through the front windshield toward Good at 9:37:13 a.m., according to ABC News' metadata analysis.
About fourth-tenths of a second after the first shot, as the car continues to move forward, a second shot is heard.
It is difficult to see exactly what happens as the Honda Pilot passes the agent who opened fire. DHS Secretary Noem told reporters the agent was struck by the vehicle.
The federal agent remains upright and can then be seen on the left of the passing vehicle, facing the driver's side door. The sound of a third gunshot then rings out.
The time between the first shot and second shot is 399 milliseconds, with 299 milliseconds between the second and third shots, ABC News' analysis shows. There are three shots in total that can be heard on camera.
9:37:55 a.m.
Moments after the shooting
Three seconds after the shooting, the Honda Pilot crashes into a parked car on the side of Portland Avenue, video footage shows. It then inches off the side of the one-way street, into the snow near a tree. The woman who later identified herself as Good's partner rushes to the Honda Pilot. The federal agent who shot Good is also seen walking toward the car.
The agent is then seen on video walking back after looking at the driver's side of the vehicle, as a bystander is heard yelling "shame." The agent can be heard saying "call 911." The woman later identified as Good's partner can subsequently be seen kneeling into the Honda Pilot. It's not clear from the video what Good's condition is at that moment.
9:42:03 a.m.
Good remains in her car
Minutes after Good is shot, she remains inside the Honda Pilot, video footage shows. Bystanders plead with DHS agents to let a man identified as a physician check on Good. The agents refuse, saying they have their own medics and that EMS personnel are on the way.
9:43:14 a.m.
Firefighters approach the scene
More than six minutes after shots rang out, local first responders are seen on video arriving at the site of Good's crashed Honda Pilot. An EMS technician or firefighter begins pulling Good's body from the car and firefighters start to render assistance to Good.
9:45:30 a.m.
Good is carried from the scene
Firefighters carry Good to the corner of Portland Avenue and 34th Street where they appear to begin administering CPR. Seven minutes later, Good's body can be seen on video being carried into an ambulance.
10:26 a.m.
The City of Minneapolis posts a message on X stating, "We are aware of a shooting involving federal law enforcement near East 34th Street and Portland Avenue. Please avoid this area."
10:46 a.m.
Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz posts on social media, "My public safety team is working to gather information on an ICE related shooting this morning. We will share information as we learn more. In the meantime, I ask folks to remain calm."
11:23 a.m.
Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.) posts on social media, "A US citizen has apparently been shot by ICE agents in Minneapolis. I'm gathering information, but the situation on the ground is volatile. ICE should leave now for everyone's safety. Please be safe Minneapolis."
11:45 a.m.
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security issues a statement on social media saying that a "violent" rioter "weaponized her vehicle" and attempted to run over and kill an ICE officer in what the agency calls an "act of domestic terrorism."
DHS' statement confirms that the woman who was shot died. The agency says that the ICE officer who opened fire followed his training and shot the woman in self-defense.
12:35 p.m.
At a news conference, Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey says the ICE agent "recklessly" used his power and calls ICE's self-defense claim "bulls---."
"Get the f---" out of Minneapolis," Frey says in a message to ICE.
2:28 p.m.
President Donald Trump addresses the shooting in a social media post, calling video footage of the shooting "a horrible thing to watch" and stating that "it is hard to believe" the ICE officer was alive.
"The woman screaming was, obviously, a professional agitator, and the woman driving the car was very disorderly, obstructing and resisting, who then violently, willfully, and viciously ran over the ICE Officer, who seems to have shot her in self defense," Trump writes in part.
This story has been updated.
ABC News' Gaby Vinick, Victoria Beaule, Helena Skinner, Lena Camilletti and Mike Pappano contributed to this report.