Security guards stood between Charlie Kirk and the crowd, but a gunman likely shot him from a rooftop, according to authorities. Using aerial images and video analysis, CNN’s Kyung Lah shows how it unfolded.
Security guards stood between Charlie Kirk and the crowd, but a gunman likely shot him from a rooftop, according to authorities. Using aerial images and video analysis, CNN’s Kyung Lah shows how it unfolded.
One Palestinian was killed and seven others injured in an Israeli airstrike on a crowded displacement camp in central Gaza. Two thirds of Gaza’s population continue to live in tents or damaged buildings six months after a ceasefire agreement, the UN says.
Air Canada CEO Michael Rousseau’s video condolence following a deadly collision involving one of the airline’s regional jets have stirred controversy throughout Canada, including comments from Prime Minister Mark Carney. CNN’s Paula Newton explains why Rousseau will now have to face lawmakers in the coming weeks.
Iran’s semi-official news outlet released video it says shows a man rescued after a reported strike on a residential building in Tehran.
Ordinary Iranians say they feel trapped between geopolitical posturing and the threat of war: frustrated, divided and unsure what comes next. CNN's Leila Gharagozlou reports.
Officials told CNN that two US Marine Expeditionary Units are on their way to the Middle East. CNN’s Paula Hancocks reports.
A pro-Iranian militia based in Iraq released footage that appears to show a drone hitting a US facility in Baghdad. CNN has geolocated the footage but could not confirm the date of the strike which was reported to have occurred on March 23rd. CNN has reached out to US Central Command for comment.
North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un told parliament the Iran war proves he was right to keep nuclear weapons, calling US actions “state-sponsored terrorism and aggression.”
From AI LEGO videos to clips of Hollywood movies, the US and Iran's meme war is heating up. Both countries have taken to social media to promote their side of the conflict. CNN's chief international correspondent Clarissa Ward reports.