The Trump administration on Wednesday delivered its surest sign yet that it’s de-escalating its highly controversial immigration crackdown in Minneapolis.
Tom Homan, the White House border czar who recently took over the operation, said the administration is “immediately” drawing down 700 federal officers — a huge chunk of the 3,000 agents that have been sent. Homan cited more cooperation from local authorities in apprehending undocumented immigrants from jails, but those local authorities have disputed the claims about their supposed lack of cooperation.
Indeed, the more likely reason for the drawdown appears to be politics — the killing of Alex Pretti a week and a half ago in an encounter with federal agents made the situation untenable for the administration — and now it’s backing off, at least somewhat.
Trump said Wednesday he’d learned his administration could possibly use a “softer touch.”
“I learned that maybe we can use a little bit of a softer touch, but you still have to be tough. These are criminals, we’re dealing with really hard criminals,” he told NBC News in an interview.
And for the first time since Pretti’s death, we have hard data to back that up.
Two new polls from Ipsos and Quinnipiac University are the first high-quality surveys conducted completely after Pretti’s death. The first shows Americans overwhelmingly view his killing as involving “excessive force,” while the second shows voters overwhelmingly see the shooting as “not justified” — with those responses even more pronounced than after Renee Good’s killing by an ICE agent earlier in January.
And importantly: It was actually Republicans who shifted the most against the federal government’s actions between those two events.
The Ipsos poll showed 55% of Americans said Pretti’s killing involved “excessive force,” compared to just 16% who said the use of force was “necessary.” That’s a roughly 3-to-1 verdict against the federal agents involved.
That’s even more lopsided than the already-lopsided verdict on Good’s killing. Back in mid-January, an Ipsos poll showed Americans said 52%-25% that the force used in Good’s killing was “excessive” rather than “necessary.”
(A CNN poll, similarly, showed US adults said 56%-26% that the agent’s use of force in Good’s killing was “inappropriate.”)
As those numbers show, the big difference in reactions to Good’s and Pretti’s killings seems to be the percentage of people willing to vouch for the force used by the federal agents involved.
And the reason that percentage has dropped is almost wholly due to Republicans.
While 54% of Republicans said the use of force against Good was “necessary” back in mid-January, that number dropped all the way to 33% on Pretti’s killing.
(Another 24% of Republicans said the force against Pretti was “excessive,” while a plurality — 43% — said they weren’t sure.)
The Quinnipiac poll is similar. While its poll last month showed registered voters said Good’s shooting was “not justified” by 18 points, its new poll shows they say Pretti’s shooting was “not justified” by 40 points — 62%-22%.
And again, Republicans were the big movers. While 77% of them said the shooting of Good was “justified,” just 55% say the same of Pretti.
And it’s not the only evidence that even large numbers of Republicans have grown weary.
The new Ipsos poll also shows the percentage of Americans who say efforts by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) have gone “too far” ticking up. It went from 58% in a poll that spanned the weekend of Pretti’s killing to 62% a week later.
That’s not a huge rise, but it is a big number. And again, the shift owes almost completely to Republicans. The percentage of them saying ICE has gone “too far” went from 20% to 30% — in a week’s time.
And there’s plenty of other evidence that this was becoming untenable:
- The Ipsos poll last week, conducted for Reuters, showed President Donald Trump’s approval rating on immigration hitting a new low for either his first or second terms, at 39%.
- A Fox News poll, which was conducted mostly after Pretti’s killing, showed 59% of registered voters and 27% of Republicans labeled ICE “too aggressive.” Both numbers were up 10 points from July.
- The Quinnipiac poll shows 60% of registered voters want ICE out of Minneapolis, and 58% want Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem removed from office. (Some Democrats have supported impeachment proceedings.) Nearly 1 in 5 Republicans favored both of those outcomes.
All of these numbers largely confirm what was already written all over the administration’s reaction to Pretti’s killing — at least after some top officials initially sought to paint him as an “assassin” and a terrorist. The administration knew this was bad and that something needed to change.
If anything, this data reaffirms what a political problem it was becoming within its own corner.
So much of Trump’s agenda involves doing things that may be unpopular with the broader American public, but that are popular with his base and tolerated by congressional Republicans.
On this one, it’s evident that Pretti’s killing was seriously jeopardizing that political firewall. And it’s logical to assume that another bad incident could have torn it down altogether.