DOJ opens a federal civil rights probe into Alex Pretti’s death in Minneapolis
Follow the latest news on President Donald Trump and his administration | Jan. 30, 2026
Today’s live updates have ended. Read what you missed below and find more coverage at apnews.com.
The Justice Department has opened a federal civil rights probe into the death of Alex Pretti, the Minneapolis resident killed Saturday by Border Patrol officers, according to federal officials.
“We’re looking at everything that would shed light on what happened that day and in the days and weeks leading up to what happened,” Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche said on Friday.
Blanche did not explain why the DOJ decided to open an investigation into Pretti’s killing, but has said a similar probe is not warranted in the Jan. 7 death of Renee Good, who was shot by an Immigration and Customs Enforcement officer in Minneapolis. He said only on Friday that the Civil Rights Division does not investigate every law enforcement shooting and that there must be circumstances and facts that “warrant an investigation.”
The Department of Homeland Security also said Friday that the FBI will lead the federal inquiry.
It was not immediately clear whether the FBI would share information and evidence with Minnesota state investigators, who have thus far been frozen out of the federal probe, in an unprecedented divide between Minnesota officials and federal authorities during President Donald Trump’s immigration crackdown.
Other news we’re following:
- Journalist Don Lemon arrested after covering protest that disrupted Minnesota church service: Lemon was arrested after he entered a church where a Minnesota ICE official is a pastor and recorded anti-immigration enforcement protesters who disrupted a service. Lemon has been charged with federal civil rights crimes, the Department of Homeland Security said Friday. Attorney General Pam Bondi posted on social media confirming the arrest of Lemon over the protest she called a “coordinated attack” on the church. Civil rights leader Rev. Al Sharpton called Lemon’s arrest “alarming” saying the Trump administration is using a “sledge hammer” on “the knees of the First Amendment.”
- Trump names new Fed chair to replace Powell: Trump said Friday that he will nominate former Federal Reserve official Kevin Warsh to be the next chair of the Fed, a decision likely to result in sharp changes to the powerful agency that could bring it closer to the White House. If approved by the Senate, Warsh would replace current chair Jerome Powell when his term expires in May, who Trump has been relentlessly assailing this past year for not cutting interest rates quickly enough in Trump’s view.
- Senate leaders scramble to avert partial government shutdown at midnight: Democrats struck a rare deal with Trump Thursday to separate funding for the Homeland Security Department from a broad government spending bill and fund it for two weeks while Congress debates curbs on ICE. The deal came as irate Democrats had vowed to vote against the entire spending bill and trigger a shutdown in the wake of the deaths of two protesters in Minneapolis.
Other news we’re following:
- Journalist Don Lemon arrested after covering protest that disrupted Minnesota church service: Lemon was arrested after he entered a church where a Minnesota ICE official is a pastor and recorded anti-immigration enforcement protesters who disrupted a service, his lawyer said Friday. Attorney General Pam Bondi posted on social media Friday morning confirming the arrest of Lemon over the protest she called a “coordinated attack” on the church. Civil rights leader Rev. Al Sharpton called Lemon’s arrest “alarming” saying the Trump administration is using a “sledge hammer” on “the knees of the First Amendment.”
- Trump names new Fed chair to replace Powell: Trump said Friday that he will nominate former Federal Reserve official Kevin Warsh to be the next chair of the Fed, a decision likely to result in sharp changes to the powerful agency that could bring it closer to the White House. If approved by the Senate, Warsh would replace current chair Jerome Powell when his term expires in May, who Trump has been relentlessly assailing this past year for not cutting interest rates quickly enough in Trump’s view.
- Senate leaders scramble to avert partial government shutdown at midnight: Democrats struck a rare deal with Trump Thursday to separate funding for the Homeland Security Department from a broad government spending bill and fund it for two weeks while Congress debates curbs on ICE. The deal came as irate Democrats had vowed to vote against the entire spending bill and trigger a shutdown in the wake of the deaths of two protesters in Minneapolis.
US orders non-essential embassy staff and families to leave Niger after air base attack claimed by Islamic State
The State Department has ordered non-essential staff and their families at the U.S embassy in Niger to leave the country due to security concerns following an attack on an air base in Niamey adjacent to the capital’s international airport that was claimed by the Islamic State.
In an updated travel alert issued Friday that retained an existing warning for Americans not to travel to Niger, the department said it had instructed non-essential staff and family members to leave “due to safety risks.” The embassy itself is open, it said.
The move came a day after gunmen attacked the air base, wounding four soldiers and damaging a plane. State television reported that armed forces responded quickly, killing 20 attackers and arresting 11.
The attack highlighted ongoing jihadi violence in Africa’s Sahel region, where Niger, Burkina Faso, and Mali face instability.
Senators have launched votes toward passage of government funding bill
The Senate has set aside its differences for now, and is pushing ahead with a series of votes toward final passage of the government funding deal Trump struck with Democrats.
They’re launching first into a group of amendment votes. Next they’ll be turning their attention to the package itself before the midnight deadline when funding for many departments expire.
Under the agreement, the package would fund several government agencies for the rest of the fiscal year, but limit Homeland Security funding for just two weeks while lawmakers discuss changes to rein in the department’s immigration enforcement operations.
If the Senate wraps up Friday, the package next goes to the House, which is due back Monday. That means there would be a temporary government shutdown over the weekend until final passage.
Journalist Don Lemon is charged with federal civil rights crimes in anti-ICE church protest
Lemon has been charged with federal civil rights crimes in connection with an anti-immigration enforcement protest that disrupted a service at a Minnesota church, the Department of Homeland Security said Friday.
Lemon was arrested Thursday by federal agents in Los Angeles, where he had been covering the Grammy Awards, his attorney Abbe Lowell said.
The veteran journalist is charged with conspiracy and interfering with the First Amendment rights of worshippers during a Jan. 18 protest at the Cities Church in St. Paul, where a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement official serves as a pastor. Another journalist and two protest participants were also arrested.
Lemon, who was fired from CNN in 2023, has said he has no affiliation to the organization that went into the church and that he was there as a journalist chronicling protesters.
JUST IN: Journalist Don Lemon is charged with federal civil rights crimes in anti-ICE church protest in Minnesota, DHS says
Sen. Warren calls Trump’s Fed chair pick a ‘sock puppet’
The top-ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee accused Kevin Warsh of reshaping his views to appease Trump ahead of being selected as the president’s pick for Federal Reserve chair.
“I don’t know how to interpret that, except to say, that’s exactly what a sock puppet does,” said Sen. Elizabeth Warren. “If Donald Trump says it, then Kevin Warsh echoes it, even though it contradicts everything he had done for years.”
GOP Sen. Thom Tillis has vowed to block Warsh’s confirmation until an inquiry into the current Fed chair is resolved. With Warren also voicing outspoken opposition, Warsh’s nomination could face trouble.
“Sen. Tillis and I don’t agree on a lot, but we do agree on Fed independence,“ said Warren.
Senators working to resolve differences and vote on government funding package
After a morning of fiery Senate speeches, senators are now working quickly to resolve outstanding issues in hopes of voting on a funding package before the midnight deadline.
Last-minute opposition from Sen. Lindsey Graham and other Republicans put the deal Trump struck with Senate leaders at risk.
But senators are now trying to work through the remaining issues and schedule votes on various potential amendments.
They are facing a midnight deadline when funding for several agencies expires. The package if approved would still need to go to the House, which is not due back in session until Monday.
There could be a partial shutdown over the weekend until Congress finishes its work.
Trump not worried about Warsh getting Senate confirmation to be Fed chair
Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., has promised to block any Trump nominees to the Federal Reserve until the Justice Department investigation ends, but the president isn’t worried about that.
Asked if he had any concerns about Kevin Warsh, his pick to succeed Jerome Powell as Fed chair, getting through the Senate, Trump told reporters: “No.”
The president called Warsh “the perfect candidate” and that his pick was “not a surprise” as Warsh had been a Fed governor previously and had previously been vetted during Trump’s first term to be chair.
“This was the man that’s the most qualified,” Trump said. “Top student, best schools. Everything was, like, perfect.”
Trump noted that Tillis’ term was ending and he was prepared to wait until the North Carolina lawmaker was out of office in order to get Warsh confirmed.
GOP Sen. Tillis defends his block on Fed nom as ‘doing my job’
Tillis said he would continue to block on the Fed chair nominee — who he called “a great, qualified candidate” — and stood up for himself against Trump’s criticism.
“I am a U.S. senator asserting my right,” Tillis said at the Capitol.
“This proves how the separation of powers works: One senator can prevent the most powerful man on the planet from potentially undermining the credibility and the independence of the Fed,” Tillis said.
“I don’t consider that obstruction. I consider that doing my job.”
The North Carolina senator is blocking any nominee for the Fed chair until the administration resolves the prosecution of Powell.
“This process of prosecution has to end before I vote to confirm anybody,” he said.
Illinois governor urges state commission to examine Trump officials on immigration crackdown
An Illinois commission tasked with investigating an immigration crackdown that unfolded in the Chicago area last year says it’ll also examine top Trump administration officials.
An aggressive immigration crackdown in the nation’s third-largest city and surrounding suburbs triggered wide protests and tense standoffs between authorities and residents. Immigration agents fatally shot one suburban dad, among other violent incidents. Numerous lawsuits were filed.
The Illinois Accountability Commission, formed by Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker, has been picking apart the operation, including the use of chemical agents. On Friday, they looked at alleged incidents of officer misconduct.
The commission cannot compel anyone to testify, bring charges or force legislation but they’ll issue a final report with recommendations.
Still, Pritzker says Department of Homeland Security Kristi Noem and others in the Trump administration should find lawyers.
“They must still be held responsible for the killings and the damage they’ve done to our country,” Pritzker said in a statement.
Trump brushes off concerns his new Fed chair pick is too hawkish
Responding to a question from a reporter about whether Kevin Warsh had promised to cut interest rates, Trump said he believed “he certainly wants to cut rates -- I’ve been watching him for a long time.”
Trump said he didn’t specifically ask Warsh about cutting rates because he wanted to “keep it nice and pure.”
Trump said Warsh was “the central casting guy that people wanted” while also praising his qualifications.
“Looks don’t mean anything, but he’s got the look,” Trump said.
Trump says he thinks ‘silent majority’ supports his ‘law and order’ push in Minneapolis
Despite signs of a growing backlash to his immigration crackdown in Minnesota, Trump says he thinks a “silent majority” of Americans support his push.
“Elections have consequences,” Trump said, contending that his immigration crackdowns has made cities safer. “The people want law and order.”
Trump was asked about whether he thought skirmishes between protesters and federal law enforcement officials in Minnesota were the prelude to a civil war.
He alleged the protesters in Minneapolis were “paid insurrectionists” funded by shadowy benefactors but did not provide evidence or details. “We know pretty much who’s funding this,” Trump said.
US allies and partners in the Middle East are urging restraint on Iran and the US
U.S. allies and partners in the Middle East have in recent days been urging restraint on both Iran and the United States, as they did earlier this year when tensions rose after President Donald Trump last threatened military strikes on the Islamic republic, according to an Arab official familiar with the outreach.
With tensions rising again amidst the arrival in the region of what Trump has called a “massive armada” of U.S. naval ships, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Oman and Qatar have all been in touch with leaders in Washington and Tehran to make the case that an escalation by either or both sides would cause massive destabilization throughout the region and impact energy markets, the official said.
The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private diplomatic discussions, but noted that the Saudi defense minister is currently in Washington and is expected to deliver that message, which has also been conveyed by the others.
Trump says an IndyCar race will come to Washington, DC in August
Trump signed an executive order on Friday establishing an IndyCar race in the nation’s capital, to be held Aug. 21-23.
“You have seats coming, you know, in front of the White House building and really expanding over 100,000 people,” he said at the signing in the Oval Office. “It’s going to be very, very important to celebrate greatness with American motor racing. That’s going to be the name of the event.”
The race is designed to be part of the America250 celebrations this year.
Trump is elevating sports as part of the celebration of 250 years of American independence, including planning a UFC fight on the South Lawn of the White House for mid-June.
House Democratic Leader says GOP voting bill ‘dead on arrival’
Rep. Hakeem Jeffries characterized the House Republicans’ new proposal as a “voter suppression bill” to help boost the GOP chances in elections.
“Republicans don’t want a free and fair election,” he said, because they have been losing races since Trump returned to the White House.
The GOP package unveiled Thursday would immediately ban universal mail ballots and ranked-choice voting and require photo IDs and proof of citizenship by 2027 for all federal elections.
Schumer says ‘time is of the essence’ to rein in ICE and prevent shutdown
Sen. Chuck Schumer says ‘time is of the essence’ to rein in ICE and a prevent government shutdown
“I hope we can get voting quickly here in the Senate,” the Democratic leader said as the chamber opened, “so we can move forward on the important work of reining ICE.”
Action on a government funding deal struck with Trump came to a standstill late Thursday as key senators, including Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, refused to move ahead with voting.
Talks are underway on next steps ahead of a midnight deadline to fund several federal agencies or risk a partial shutdown.
DOJ has opened a federal civil rights probe into the death of Alex Pretti
The Justice Department has opened a federal civil rights probe into the death of Alex Pretti.
Deputy Attorney General Todd Blanche announced the investigation on Friday.
“We’re looking at everything that would shed light on that day,” Blanche said.
Pretti, a Minneapolis resident, was shot and killed by Border Patrol officers, the Department of Homeland Security said Friday. He was among a group protesting an immigration enforcement action.
JUST IN: Deputy attorney general says the Justice Department has opened a federal civil rights probe into death of Alex Pretti
Supreme Court’s birthright citizenship arguments set for April 1
Trump is asking the justices to allow him to put in place an executive order declaring that children born to parents who are in the United States illegally or temporarily are not American citizens.
Lower courts have so far uniformly ruled against him.
The court on Friday issued its schedule of arguments for late March and early April. The justices are giving themselves roughly three months to reach a decision. The court generally winds up its work by the end of June.
Civil rights groups file lawsuit over ICE entering homes without warrant
Several civil and immigration rights groups have filed a lawsuit against the Trump administration challenging a policy that allows federal immigration agents to enter private homes without a warrant.
The lawsuit was filed Friday by Lawyers for Civil Rights on behalf of the Greater Boston Latino Network and Brazilian Worker Center. It challenges a May 2025 memorandum from the acting director of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement that allows agents to enter private residents.
“The Fourth Amendment exists precisely to prevent government agents from breaking into people’s homes without any judicial process or oversight,” Brooke Simone, a staff attorney at Lawyers for Civil Rights, said in a statement.
US sanctions against Iran target interior minister over protest crackdown
The Trump administration has imposed sanctions against Iran’s interior minister, accusing Eskandar Momeni of repressing nationwide protests that have challenged Tehran’s theocratic government.
The penalties are the latest by the United States and the European Union targeting high-ranking officials over the crackdown.
The administration says Momeni has overseen Iran’s law enforcement forces that are responsible for the deaths of thousands of peaceful protesters.
The EU on Thursday imposed its own sanctions against Momeni, along with members of Iran’s judicial system and other high-ranking officers.
Trump claims Putin agreed to temporary halt in energy attacks on Ukraine
Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to U.S. President Donald Trump’s request to pause attacks on Ukraine’s power grid for a week.
Trump announced this on Thursday, but details about the timing and scope remain unclear.
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov confirmed the request but didn’t specify when it would start.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy expressed skepticism, noting ongoing Russian attacks. Despite the pause, Russia continues drone and missile strikes. Bitter cold is expected in Ukraine, worsening conditions. Talks are ongoing, but no ceasefire agreement has been reached.
JUST IN: US imposes latest series of sanctions targeting Iran, including against interior minister over protest crackdown
Markets react to Trump’s choice to lead the Federal Reserve
Financial markets are uneasy as investors try to figure out what Trump’s new nominee, Kevin Warsh, to lead the Federal Reserve will mean.
U.S. stocks fell modestly Friday. The S&P 500 dipped 0.1%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 118 points, and the Nasdaq composite slipped 0.2%.
Prices for U.S. Treasury bonds initially rose following Trump’s announcement, perhaps suggesting increased hopes in the Fed’s ability to stay independent, before paring back.
Some of the wildest action was again in the precious metals markets, where gold’s price swung.
Leaders of Canada, U.K. and elsewhere explore deeper ties with China
Leaders from Canada, the United Kingdom, Finland and other countries have recently visited China, while more are planning to go.
Since Trump took office again, America’s closest allies are exploring opportunities with China following clashes with Trump over tariffs and his demands to take over Greenland from NATO ally Denmark.
They’re resetting relations with a country long seen as a top adversary to many Western partners and the top economic rival to the U.S. despite the risk of irking Trump. This week alone, the prime ministers of the U.K. and Finland went to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Protesters call for nationwide strike against Trump’s immigration policies
Protesters across the U.S. are calling for a nationwide strike to oppose the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown in Minneapolis.
The demonstrations calling for “no work, no school, no shopping” come almost a week after intensive care nurse Alex Pretti was killed while recording Border Patrol officers with his cellphone.
Multiple businesses announced they would be closed during the “blackout,” while some schools canceled classes in anticipation of mass absences. Some students are planning walkouts, while others plan to gather in churches, courthouses and city centers in solidarity.
Bondi confirms arrest of Don Lemon and the others who were present during the protest
Attorney General Pam Bondi posted on social media Friday morning, confirming the arrest of Lemon and the others who were present during the protest at the church where a local official with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement serves as a pastor.
“At my direction, early this morning federal agents arrested Don Lemon, Trahern Jeen Crews, Georgia Fort, and Jamael Lydell Lundy, in connection with the coordinated attack on Cities Church in St. Paul, Minnesota,” Bondi said.
Shortly after the first attempt to charge him fell through, Lemon predicted that the administration would try again.
“And guess what,” he said, “here I am. Keep trying. That’s not going to stop me from being a journalist. That’s not going to diminish my voice. Go ahead, make me into the new Jimmy Kimmel, if you want. Just do it. Because I’m not going anywhere.”
A prominent civil rights attorney and two other people involved in the protest were arrested last week. Prosecutors have accused them of civil rights violations for disrupting the Cities Church service.
Three people arrested along with Journalist Don Lemon
Three other people were arrested with Lemon on Friday in connection with an anti-immigration protest that disrupted a service at a Minnesota church and increased tensions between residents and the Trump administration.
Lemon was arrested by federal agents in Los Angeles, where he had been covering the Grammy Awards, his attorney Abbe Lowell said.
It is unclear what charge or charges Lemon and the others are facing in the Jan. 18 protest at the Cities Church in St. Paul. Lemon’s arrest came after a magistrate judge last week rejected prosecutors’ initial bid to charge him.
Lemon, who was fired from CNN in 2023, has said he has no affiliation to the organization that went into the church and that he was there as a journalist chronicling protesters.
Who is Kevin Warsh, Trump’s pick for Federal Reserve chair?
Warsh, 55, was previously a runner-up for the Senate-confirmed post of Fed Chair in 2017, when Trump selected Powell to lead the central bank.
Warsh is credentialed with degrees from Stanford University and Harvard University Law School. He is also married to Jane Lauder, the daughter of billionaire cosmetics heir Ronald Lauder, a major Republican donor.
At 35, Warsh became the youngest governor on the Fed’s seven member board, serving from 2006 to 2011. Warsh worked closely with then-Chair Ben Bernanke in 2008-09 during the central bank’s efforts to combat the financial crisis and the Great Recession.
Warsh has been working as a visiting economics fellow at the Hoover Institution, a conservative think tank located at Stanford University. He is also a lecturer at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and a partner at the Duquesne Family Office, which manages the wealth of billionaire investor Stanley Druckenmiller.
FBI now heading investigation into Pretti killing
The Department of Homeland Security says that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is now heading the investigation into the shooting death of Alex Pretti.
The Department said earlier this week that Homeland Security Investigations, which is a unit within the department, would be heading the investigation.
But Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said during an interview with Fox News on Thursday that the FBI was in the lead.
Separately, Customs and Border Protection is doing its own internal investigation.
Homeland Security did not immediately respond to questions about when the change was made or why.
Protesters call for nationwide strike against Trump’s immigration policies
Protesters across the U.S. are calling for “no work, no school, no shopping” as part of a nationwide strike on Friday to oppose the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown in Minneapolis.
The demonstrations come almost a week after Alex Pretti, an intensive care nurse, was shot multiple times as he used his cellphone to record Border Patrol officers conducting an immigration enforcement operation. The death only reignited scrutiny over the administration’s tactics after the Jan. 7 death of Renee Good, who was fatally shot behind the wheel of her vehicle by a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officer.
Multiple businesses announced they would be closed during Friday’s “blackout,” and some schools preemptively canceled classes in anticipation of mass absences. Some students are planning walkouts, while others plan to gather in churches, courthouses and city centers in solidarity.
House Democratic Leader says Don Lemon must be freed immediately
“Don Lemon is an accomplished journalist whose urgent work is protected by the First Amendment,” said Rep. Hakeem Jeffries on social media.
“There is zero basis to arrest him. He should be freed immediately,” Jeffries said. “The Trump Justice Department is illegitimate. They will all be held accountable for their crimes against the Constitution.”
Tillis says he will oppose Trump’s Fed chair pick if Powell inquiry isn’t resolved
The retiring North Carolina senator has been among a group of Senate Republicans who have rushed to the defense of current Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell after it was revealed earlier this month that the Justice Department had opened an inquiry into him.
After Trump said Friday that he would nominate former Federal Reserve official Kevin Warsh to serve as the next chair of the Fed, Tillis made clear the inquiry would stand in the way of any confirmation.
“I will oppose the confirmation of any Federal Reserve nominee, including for the position of Chairman, until the DOJ’s inquiry into Chairman Powell is fully and transparently resolved,” Tillis wrote.
Tillis is a swing vote on the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the Federal Reserve.
Tillis’s opposition could complicate the confirmation process for Warsh and Senate GOP leaders.
Journalist Don Lemon arrested following church protest
Journalist Don Lemon has been arrested after he entered a Minnesota church and recorded anti-immigration enforcement protesters who disrupted a service.
The protest Jan. 18 increased tensions between residents and the Trump administration. It was not immediately clear what charge or charges Lemon was facing.
The arrest came after a magistrate judge last week rejected prosecutors’ initial bid to charge the journalist.
DHS ramps up surveillance in immigration raids, sweeping in citizens
Across Minnesota and other states where the Department of Homeland Security has surged personnel, officials say enforcement efforts are targeted and focused on serious offenders. But photographs, videos and internal documents paint a different picture, showing agents leaning heavily on biometric surveillance and vast, interconnected databases — highlighting how a sprawling digital surveillance apparatus has become central to the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown.
Civil liberties experts warn the expanding use of those systems risks sweeping up citizens and noncitizens alike, often with little transparency or meaningful oversight.
Over the past year, Homeland Security and other federal agencies have dramatically expanded their ability to collect, share and analyze people’s personal data, thanks to a web of agreements with local, state, federal and international agencies, plus contracts with technology companies and data brokers.
Federal authorities can now monitor American cities at a scale that would have been difficult to imagine just a few years ago, advocates say. When asked by The Associated Press about its expanding use of surveillance tools, DHS said it would not disclose law enforcement-sensitive methods.
Melania Trump’s documentary premieres at the Kennedy Center ahead of global release
Melania Trump is capping her first year back as first lady with the global release of a documentary she produced about the 20 days leading up to her husband’s return to the White House.
A private person, Melania Trump remains a bit of a mystery to the public in her husband’s second term. “Melania” premiered Thursday at the Kennedy Center before it is released on Friday in more than 1,500 theaters in the U.S. and around the world.
“I want to show the audience my life, what it takes to be a first lady again and (the) transition from private citizen back to the White House,” Melania Trump told reporters as she and the president moved along a charcoal-colored walkway at the event attended by Cabinet members, members of Congress and conservative commentators.
She said viewers will see how she conducts her businesses and philanthropy, cares for her family and builds her White House team.
The documentary was produced by AmazonMGM Studios and is said to have cost $40 million. It will stream exclusively on the Amazon Prime Video streaming service after its theatrical run.
Trump sues IRS and Treasury for $10 billion over leaked tax info
Trump is suing the IRS and Treasury Department for $10 billion, as he accuses the federal agencies of a failure to prevent a leak of the president’s tax information to news outlets between 2018 and 2020.
The suit, filed in a Florida federal court Thursday, includes the president’s sons Eric Trump and, Donald Trump Jr. and the Trump organization as plaintiffs.
The filing alleges that the leak of Trump and the Trump Organization’s confidential tax records caused “reputational and financial harm, public embarrassment, unfairly tarnished their business reputations, portrayed them in a false light, and negatively affected President Trump, and the other Plaintiffs’ public standing.”
In 2024, former IRS contractor Charles Edward Littlejohn of Washington, D.C. — who worked for Booz Allen Hamilton, a defense and national security tech firm — was sentenced to five years in prison after pleading guilty to leaking tax information about Trump and others to news outlets.
Senate leaders scramble to save bipartisan deal and avert partial government shutdown at midnight
Senate leaders were scrambling to save a bipartisan spending deal and avert a partial government shutdown at midnight Friday as Democrats have demanded new restrictions on federal immigration raids across the country.
Democrats struck a rare deal with Trump Thursday to separate funding for the Homeland Security Department from a broad government spending bill and fund it for two weeks while Congress debates curbs on the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. The deal came as irate Democrats had vowed to vote against the entire spending bill and trigger a shutdown in the wake of the deaths of two protesters at the hands of federal agents in Minneapolis.
Trump had said earlier in the day that “we don’t want a shutdown.”
Still, passage of the agreement was delayed late Thursday as Senate leaders were still working to win enough support for the package.
Trump names former Federal Reserve governor Warsh as the next Fed chair, to replace Powell
Trump said Friday that he will nominate former Federal Reserve official Kevin Warsh to be the next chair of the Fed, a pick likely to result in sharp changes to the powerful agency that could bring it closer to the White House and reduce its longtime independence from day-to-day politics.
Warsh would replace current chair Jerome Powell when his term expires in May. Trump chose Powell to lead the Fed in 2017 but this year has relentlessly assailed him for not cutting interest rates quickly enough.
The appointment, which requires Senate confirmation, amounts to a return trip for Warsh, 55, who was a member of the Fed’s board from 2006 to 2011. He was the youngest governor in history when he was appointed at age 35. He is currently a fellow at the right-leaning Hoover Institution and a lecturer at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.